doc/administration/instance_review.md, before:

---
stage: Growth
group: Acquisition
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Instance review
description: Request a free instance review.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

If you run a GitLab Self-Managed instance with 50 or more users on the Free tier
([either Community Edition or unlicensed Enterprise Edition](https://about.gitlab.com/install/ce-or-ee/)),
you can request a free instance review.

<!-- vale gitlab_base.FutureTense = NO -->

After you submit the request, a GitLab team member will review your instance
details and contact you with suggestions to improve your use of GitLab.

<!-- vale gitlab_base.FutureTense = YES -->

To request an instance review:

1. Sign in as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Get a free instance review**.
1. On the instance review page, enter your contact details.
1. Select **Request Instance Review**.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/administration/instance_review.md, after:

---
stage: Growth
group: Acquisition
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Instance review
description: Request a free instance review.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

If you run a GitLab Self-Managed instance with 50 or more users on the Free tier
([either Community Edition or unlicensed Enterprise Edition](https://about.gitlab.com/install/ce-or-ee/)),
you can request a free instance review.

<!-- vale gitlab_base.FutureTense = NO -->

After you submit the request, a GitLab team member will review your instance
details and contact you with suggestions to improve your use of GitLab.

<!-- vale gitlab_base.FutureTense = YES -->

To request an instance review:

1. Sign in as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Get a free instance review**.
1. On the instance review page, enter your contact details.
1. Select **Request Instance Review**.
