doc/user/project/repository/branches/branch_rules.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Understand how to name, manage, and protect Git branches.
title: Branch rules
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

GitLab provides multiple methods to protect individual branches. These methods
ensure your branches receive oversight and quality checks from their creation to their deletion:

- Apply enhanced security and protection to your project's [default branch](default.md).
- Configure [protected branches](protected.md) to:
  - Limit who can push and merge to a branch.
  - Manage if users can force push to the branch.
  - Manage if changes to files listed in the `CODEOWNERS` file can be pushed directly to the branch.
- Configure [approval rules](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#approvals-for-protected-branches) to manage review requirements and implement [security-related approvals](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#security-approvals).
- Integrate with third-party [status checks](../../merge_requests/status_checks.md)
  to ensure the contents of your branch meets your defined quality standards.

You can manage your branches:

- With the GitLab user interface.
- With Git on the command line.
- With the [Branches API](../../../../api/branches.md).

## View branch rules

{{< history >}}

- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/123368) in GitLab 16.1. Feature flag `branch_rules` removed.

{{< /history >}}

The branch rules overview page shows all branches with any configured protections,
and their protection methods:

![Example of a branch with configured protections](img/view_branch_protections_v15_10.png)

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To view the branch rules overview list:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules** to view all branches with protections.

### View branch rule details

To view branch rules and protections for a single branch:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules** to view all branches with protections.
1. Identify the branch you want and select **View details**.

## Create a branch rule

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) in GitLab 16.8 with a flag named `add_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `add_branch_rules` [renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) to `edit_branch_rules` in GitLab 16.11. Disabled by default.
- **All branches** and **All protected branches** options [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/388129) in GitLab 17.0.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To create a branch rule:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules**.
1. Select **Add branch rule**.
1. Choose one of the following options:
   - To enter a specific branch name or pattern:
     1. Select **Branch name or pattern**.
     1. From the **Create branch rule** dropdown list, select a branch name or create a [wildcard](protected.md#use-wildcard-rules) with `*`.
   - To protect all branches in the project:
     1. Select **All branches**.
     1. On the rule's details page, under **Merge request approvals**, enter the required number of approvals for the rule.
   - To protect all branches in the project that are already specified as protected:
     1. Select **All protected branches**.
     1. On the rule's details page, under **Merge request approvals**, enter the required number of approvals for the rule.

### Add a branch rule protection

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

To add protections to a new branch:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules**.
1. Select **Add branch rule**.
1. Select one of **All protected branches** or **Branch name or pattern**.
1. Select **Create branch rule**.

### Add an approval rule

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To add a merge request approval rule:

1. From the [branch rule details](#view-branch-rule-details) page, go to the **Merge request approvals** section.
1. In the **Approval rules** section, select **Add approval rule**.
1. On the right sidebar, complete the fields:
   - Enter a **Rule name**.
   - In **Required number of approvals**, enter a value (`0`-`100`).

     A value of `0` makes [the rule optional](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#configure-optional-approval-rules), and any number greater than `0` creates a required rule.
     The maximum number of required approvals is `100`.
   - Select users or groups that are
     [eligible to approve](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#eligible-approvers).

     GitLab suggests approvers based on previous authors of the files changed by the merge request.
1. Select **Save changes**.

For additional information, see [Approval rules](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#approvals-for-protected-branches).

### Edit squash commits option

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/181370) in GitLab 17.9 with a flag named `branch_rule_squash_settings`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/506542) in GitLab 17.10.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/524860) in GitLab 17.11. Feature flag `branch_rule_squash_settings` removed.

{{< /history >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.
- In GitLab Free, this feature is available only if the branch rule targets **All branches**.
- In GitLab Premium and GitLab Ultimate, this feature is available for all branch rules.

To edit a squash option:

1. From the [branch rule details](#view-branch-rule-details) page, go to the **Squash commits when merging** section.
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Select one of the following options:

   - **Do not allow**: Squashing is never allowed and the checkbox is hidden.
   - **Allow**: Checkbox is visible and unselected by default.
   - **Encourage**: Checkbox is visible and selected by default.
   - **Require**: Squashing is always performed. Checkbox is visible and selected, and users cannot change it.

1. Select **Save changes**.

### Add a status check service

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12522) in GitLab 17.4 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `edit_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all protected branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

To add a status check service:

1. From the [branch rule details](#view-branch-rule-details) page, go to the **Status checks** section.
1. Select **Add status check**.
1. Enter the **Service name**.
1. In the **API to check** field, enter the URL.

   You should use an HTTPS URL to protect your merge request data in transit.

![Branch rules status checks](img/branch_rule_status_check_v17_4.png)

For more information, see [External status checks](../../merge_requests/status_checks.md).

## Edit a branch rule target

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) in GitLab 16.8 with a flag named `add_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `add_branch_rules` [renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) to `edit_branch_rules` in GitLab 16.11. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To edit a branch rule target:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules** to view all branches with protections.
1. Identify the branch you want and select **View details**.
1. In the **Rule target** section, select **Edit**.
1. Edit the information as needed.
1. Select **Update**.

### Edit a branch rule protection

For information about branch protection controls, see [Protected branches](protected.md).

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

## Delete a branch rule

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) in GitLab 16.8 with a flag named `add_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `add_branch_rules` [renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) to `edit_branch_rules` in GitLab 16.11. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Deleting a branch rule is not available for rules targeting `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To delete a branch rule:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules**.
1. Next to a rule you want to delete, select **View details**.
1. In the upper-right corner, select **Delete rule**.
1. On the confirmation dialog, select **Delete branch rule**.

## Related topics

- [Default branch](default.md)
- [Protected branches](protected.md)
- [Protect your repository](../protect.md)
- [Branching strategies](strategies/_index.md)
- [Merge request approvals](../../merge_requests/approvals/_index.md)

Commit message:

docs: Add Default option for branch-level squash settings
Document the new "Default" option that allows resetting
branch-level squash settings to inherit from project defaults.

This option is available for all branch rules except "All branches",
which defines the project-level defaults.

Changelog: changed

doc/user/project/repository/branches/branch_rules.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Understand how to name, manage, and protect Git branches.
title: Branch rules
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

GitLab provides multiple methods to protect individual branches. These methods
ensure your branches receive oversight and quality checks from their creation to their deletion:

- Apply enhanced security and protection to your project's [default branch](default.md).
- Configure [protected branches](protected.md) to:
  - Limit who can push and merge to a branch.
  - Manage if users can force push to the branch.
  - Manage if changes to files listed in the `CODEOWNERS` file can be pushed directly to the branch.
- Configure [approval rules](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#approvals-for-protected-branches) to manage review requirements and implement [security-related approvals](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#security-approvals).
- Integrate with third-party [status checks](../../merge_requests/status_checks.md)
  to ensure the contents of your branch meets your defined quality standards.

You can manage your branches:

- With the GitLab user interface.
- With Git on the command line.
- With the [Branches API](../../../../api/branches.md).

## View branch rules

{{< history >}}

- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/123368) in GitLab 16.1. Feature flag `branch_rules` removed.

{{< /history >}}

The branch rules overview page shows all branches with any configured protections,
and their protection methods:

![Example of a branch with configured protections](img/view_branch_protections_v15_10.png)

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To view the branch rules overview list:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules** to view all branches with protections.

### View branch rule details

To view branch rules and protections for a single branch:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules** to view all branches with protections.
1. Identify the branch you want and select **View details**.

## Create a branch rule

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) in GitLab 16.8 with a flag named `add_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `add_branch_rules` [renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) to `edit_branch_rules` in GitLab 16.11. Disabled by default.
- **All branches** and **All protected branches** options [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/388129) in GitLab 17.0.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To create a branch rule:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules**.
1. Select **Add branch rule**.
1. Choose one of the following options:
   - To enter a specific branch name or pattern:
     1. Select **Branch name or pattern**.
     1. From the **Create branch rule** dropdown list, select a branch name or create a [wildcard](protected.md#use-wildcard-rules) with `*`.
   - To protect all branches in the project:
     1. Select **All branches**.
     1. On the rule's details page, under **Merge request approvals**, enter the required number of approvals for the rule.
   - To protect all branches in the project that are already specified as protected:
     1. Select **All protected branches**.
     1. On the rule's details page, under **Merge request approvals**, enter the required number of approvals for the rule.

### Add a branch rule protection

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

To add protections to a new branch:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules**.
1. Select **Add branch rule**.
1. Select one of **All protected branches** or **Branch name or pattern**.
1. Select **Create branch rule**.

### Add an approval rule

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To add a merge request approval rule:

1. From the [branch rule details](#view-branch-rule-details) page, go to the **Merge request approvals** section.
1. In the **Approval rules** section, select **Add approval rule**.
1. On the right sidebar, complete the fields:
   - Enter a **Rule name**.
   - In **Required number of approvals**, enter a value (`0`-`100`).

     A value of `0` makes [the rule optional](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#configure-optional-approval-rules), and any number greater than `0` creates a required rule.
     The maximum number of required approvals is `100`.
   - Select users or groups that are
     [eligible to approve](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#eligible-approvers).

     GitLab suggests approvers based on previous authors of the files changed by the merge request.
1. Select **Save changes**.

For additional information, see [Approval rules](../../merge_requests/approvals/rules.md#approvals-for-protected-branches).

### Edit squash commits option

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/181370) in GitLab 17.9 with a flag named `branch_rule_squash_settings`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/506542) in GitLab 17.10.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/524860) in GitLab 17.11. Feature flag `branch_rule_squash_settings` removed.

{{< /history >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.
- In GitLab Free, this feature is available only if the branch rule targets **All branches**.
- In GitLab Premium and GitLab Ultimate, this feature is available for all branch rules.

To edit a squash option:

1. From the [branch rule details](#view-branch-rule-details) page, go to the **Squash commits when merging** section.
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Select one of the following options:

   - **Default**: Removes the branch-level squash setting and inherits from the project's default settings.
     This option is not available for the **All branches** rule, which defines the project's default settings.
   - **Do not allow**: Squashing is never allowed and the checkbox is hidden.
   - **Allow**: Checkbox is visible and unselected by default.
   - **Encourage**: Checkbox is visible and selected by default.
   - **Require**: Squashing is always performed. Checkbox is visible and selected, and users cannot change it.

1. Select **Save changes**.

### Add a status check service

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12522) in GitLab 17.4 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `edit_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all protected branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

To add a status check service:

1. From the [branch rule details](#view-branch-rule-details) page, go to the **Status checks** section.
1. Select **Add status check**.
1. Enter the **Service name**.
1. In the **API to check** field, enter the URL.

   You should use an HTTPS URL to protect your merge request data in transit.

![Branch rules status checks](img/branch_rule_status_check_v17_4.png)

For more information, see [External status checks](../../merge_requests/status_checks.md).

## Edit a branch rule target

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) in GitLab 16.8 with a flag named `add_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `add_branch_rules` [renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) to `edit_branch_rules` in GitLab 16.11. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To edit a branch rule target:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules** to view all branches with protections.
1. Identify the branch you want and select **View details**.
1. In the **Rule target** section, select **Edit**.
1. Edit the information as needed.
1. Select **Update**.

### Edit a branch rule protection

For information about branch protection controls, see [Protected branches](protected.md).

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Not available for `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

## Delete a branch rule

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) in GitLab 16.8 with a flag named `add_branch_rules`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `add_branch_rules` [renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/88279) to `edit_branch_rules` in GitLab 16.11. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.4.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454501) in GitLab 17.5.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Deleting a branch rule is not available for rules targeting `all branches`.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project.

To delete a branch rule:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this field is on the top bar.
1. Select **Settings** > **Repository**.
1. Expand **Branch rules**.
1. Next to a rule you want to delete, select **View details**.
1. In the upper-right corner, select **Delete rule**.
1. On the confirmation dialog, select **Delete branch rule**.

## Related topics

- [Default branch](default.md)
- [Protected branches](protected.md)
- [Protect your repository](../protect.md)
- [Branching strategies](strategies/_index.md)
- [Merge request approvals](../../merge_requests/approvals/_index.md)
