doc/user/analytics/analytics_dashboards.md, before:

---
stage: Analytics
group: Platform Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Analytics dashboards
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Introduced in GitLab 15.9 as an [experiment](../../policy/development_stages_support.md#experiment) feature [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `combined_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
- `combined_analytics_dashboards` [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/389067) by default in GitLab 16.11.
- `combined_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454350) in GitLab 17.1.
- `filters` configuration [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/505317) in GitLab 17.9. Disabled by default.
- Inline visualizations configuration [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/509111) in GitLab 17.9.
- [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/195086) from GitLab Ultimate to GitLab Premium in 18.2.

{{< /history >}}

Analytics dashboards help you visualize collected data on built-in dashboards.

An enhanced dashboard experience is proposed in [epic 13801](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/13801).

## Data sources

{{< history >}}

- Product analytics and custom visualization data sources [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/497577) in GitLab 17.7.

{{< /history >}}

A data source is a connection to a database or collection of data which can be used by your dashboard
filters and visualizations to query and retrieve results.

## Built-in dashboards

To help you get started with analytics, GitLab provides built-in dashboards with predefined visualizations.
These dashboards are labeled **By GitLab**.
You cannot edit the built-in dashboards, but you can create custom dashboards with a similar style.

The following built-in dashboards are available:

- [**Value Streams Dashboard**](value_streams_dashboard.md) displays metrics related to DevOps performance, security exposure, and workstream optimization.
- [**GitLab Duo and SDLC trends**](duo_and_sdlc_trends.md) displays the impact of AI tools on software development lifecycle (SDLC) metrics for a project or group.
- [**DORA Metrics Dashboard**](dora_metrics_charts.md) displays the evolution of each DORA metric over time.
- [**Merge request analytics**](merge_request_analytics.md) displays metrics for merge request throughput and mean time to merge.

## Custom dashboards

You can [create custom dashboards](#create-a-dashboard-by-configuration) to visualize the metrics that are most relevant to your case.

- Each project can have an unlimited number of dashboards.
  The only limitation might be the [repository size limit](../project/repository/repository_size.md#size-and-storage-limits).
- Each dashboard can reference one or more [visualizations](#define-a-chart-visualization-template).
- Visualizations can be shared across dashboards.

Project maintainers can enforce approval rules on dashboard changes with features such as [code owners](../project/codeowners/_index.md) and [approval rules](../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).
Your dashboard files are versioned in source control with the rest of a project's code.

## View project dashboards

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Reporter role for the project.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze** > **Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

## View group dashboards

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/390542) in GitLab 16.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `group_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/416970) in GitLab 16.8.
- Feature flag `group_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/439718) in GitLab 16.11.

{{< /history >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Reporter role for the group.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Analyze** > **Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

## Change the location of dashboards

You can change the location of your project or group custom dashboards.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project or group the project belongs to.

### Group dashboards

{{< alert type="note" >}}

[Issue 411572](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/411572) proposes connecting this feature to group-level dashboards.

{{< /alert >}}

To change the location of a group's custom dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you want to store your dashboard files in.
   The project must belong to the group for which you create the dashboards.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Analytics**.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

### Project dashboards

By default custom dashboards are saved to the current project, because
dashboards are usually defined in the project where the analytics data is retrieved from.
However, you can also have a separate project for dashboards.
This setup is recommended if you want to enforce specific access rules to the dashboard definitions or share dashboards across multiple projects.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

You can share dashboards only between projects that are located in the same group.

{{< /alert >}}

To change the location of project dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project,
   or select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**
   to create the project to store your dashboard files.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the analytics project.
1. Select **Settings** > **Analytics**.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Create a dashboard by configuration

You can create dashboards manually by configuration.

To define a dashboard:

1. In `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/`, create a directory named like the dashboard.

   Each dashboard should have its own directory.
1. In the new directory, create a `.yaml` file with the same name as the directory, for example `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/my_dashboard/my_dashboard.yaml`.

   This file contains the dashboard definition. It must conform to the JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.
1. Optional. To create new visualizations to add to your dashboard, see [defining a chart visualization template](#define-a-chart-visualization-template).

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/dashboards/audience.yaml), if you want to create three dashboards (Conversion funnels, Demographic breakdown, and North star metrics)
and one visualization (line chart) that applies to all dashboards, the file structure looks like this:

```plaintext
.gitlab/analytics/dashboards
├── conversion_funnels
│  └── conversion_funnels.yaml
├── demographic_breakdown
│  └── demographic_breakdown.yaml
├── north_star_metrics
|  └── north_star_metrics.yaml
├── visualizations
│  └── example_line_chart.yaml
```

### Dashboard filters

Dashboards support the following filters:

- **Date range**: Date selector to filter data by date.
- **Anonymous users**: Toggle to include or exclude anonymous users from the dataset.

To enable filters, in the `.yaml` configuration file set the filter's `enabled` option to `true`:

```yaml
title: My dashboard
# ...
filters:
  excludeAnonymousUsers:
    enabled: true
  dateRange:
    enabled: true
```

See a complete [dashboard configuration example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/dashboards/audience.yaml).

### Define an inline chart visualization

You can define different charts and add visualization options to some of them, such as:

- Line chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Column chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Data table.
- Single stat, with the only option to set `decimalPlaces` (number, default value is 0).
This process can also be followed for user-created dashboards. Each visualization must be written with the following
required fields:

- version
- type
- data
- options

### Define a chart visualization template

{{< alert type="note" >}}

We recommend using visualization templates sparingly. Visualization templates can lead to long visualization
selection lists in the dashboard editor UI if not managed, which may lead to visualizations being missed or duplicated.
Generally, visualization templates should be reserved for visualizations that will be used identically
across several dashboards.

{{< /alert >}}

If you need a visualization to be used by multiple dashboards, you might store them as separate template files.
When added to a dashboard, the visualization template will be copied over to the dashboard. Visualization templates
copied to dashboards are not updated when the visualization template is updated.

To define a chart visualization template for your dashboards:

1. In the `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/visualizations/` directory, create a `.yaml` file.
   The filename should be descriptive of the visualization it defines.
1. In the `.yaml` file, define the visualization configuration, according to the schema in
   `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/visualizations/events_over_time.yaml), to create a line chart that illustrates event count over time, in the `visualizations` folder
create a `line_chart.yaml` file with the following required fields:

- version
- type
- data
- options

## Troubleshooting

### `Something went wrong while loading the dashboard.`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that data could not be loaded, first try reloading the page.
If the error persists:

- Check that your configurations match the dashboard JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.

### `Invalid dashboard configuration`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that the configuration is invalid, check that your configurations match the dashboard JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.

### `Invalid visualization configuration`

If a dashboard panel displays a message that the visualization configuration is invalid,
check that your visualization configurations match the [visualization JSON schema](#define-a-chart-visualization-template)
defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

### Dashboard panel error

If a dashboard panel displays an error message:

- Make sure your [visualization](analytics_dashboards.md#define-a-chart-visualization-template) configuration is set up correctly.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/user/analytics/analytics_dashboards.md, after:

---
stage: Analytics
group: Platform Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Analytics dashboards
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Introduced in GitLab 15.9 as an [experiment](../../policy/development_stages_support.md#experiment) feature [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `combined_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
- `combined_analytics_dashboards` [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/389067) by default in GitLab 16.11.
- `combined_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454350) in GitLab 17.1.
- `filters` configuration [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/505317) in GitLab 17.9. Disabled by default.
- Inline visualizations configuration [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/509111) in GitLab 17.9.
- [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/195086) from GitLab Ultimate to GitLab Premium in 18.2.

{{< /history >}}

Analytics dashboards help you visualize collected data on built-in dashboards.

An enhanced dashboard experience is proposed in [epic 13801](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/13801).

## Data sources

{{< history >}}

- Product analytics and custom visualization data sources [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/497577) in GitLab 17.7.

{{< /history >}}

A data source is a connection to a database or collection of data which can be used by your dashboard
filters and visualizations to query and retrieve results.

## Built-in dashboards

To help you get started with analytics, GitLab provides built-in dashboards with predefined visualizations.
These dashboards are labeled **By GitLab**.
You cannot edit the built-in dashboards, but you can create custom dashboards with a similar style.

The following built-in dashboards are available:

- [**Value Streams Dashboard**](value_streams_dashboard.md) displays metrics related to DevOps performance, security exposure, and workstream optimization.
- [**GitLab Duo and SDLC trends**](duo_and_sdlc_trends.md) displays the impact of AI tools on software development lifecycle (SDLC) metrics for a project or group.
- [**DORA Metrics Dashboard**](dora_metrics_charts.md) displays the evolution of each DORA metric over time.
- [**Merge request analytics**](merge_request_analytics.md) displays metrics for merge request throughput and mean time to merge.

## Custom dashboards

You can [create custom dashboards](#create-a-dashboard-by-configuration) to visualize the metrics that are most relevant to your case.

- Each project can have an unlimited number of dashboards.
  The only limitation might be the [repository size limit](../project/repository/repository_size.md#size-and-storage-limits).
- Each dashboard can reference one or more [visualizations](#define-a-chart-visualization-template).
- Visualizations can be shared across dashboards.

Project maintainers can enforce approval rules on dashboard changes with features such as [code owners](../project/codeowners/_index.md) and [approval rules](../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).
Your dashboard files are versioned in source control with the rest of a project's code.

## View project dashboards

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Reporter role for the project.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze** > **Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

## View group dashboards

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/390542) in GitLab 16.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `group_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/416970) in GitLab 16.8.
- Feature flag `group_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/439718) in GitLab 16.11.

{{< /history >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Reporter role for the group.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Analyze** > **Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

## Change the location of dashboards

You can change the location of your project or group custom dashboards.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project or group the project belongs to.

### Group dashboards

{{< alert type="note" >}}

[Issue 411572](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/411572) proposes connecting this feature to group-level dashboards.

{{< /alert >}}

To change the location of a group's custom dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you want to store your dashboard files in.
   The project must belong to the group for which you create the dashboards.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Analytics**.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

### Project dashboards

By default custom dashboards are saved to the current project, because
dashboards are usually defined in the project where the analytics data is retrieved from.
However, you can also have a separate project for dashboards.
This setup is recommended if you want to enforce specific access rules to the dashboard definitions or share dashboards across multiple projects.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

You can share dashboards only between projects that are located in the same group.

{{< /alert >}}

To change the location of project dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project,
   or select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**
   to create the project to store your dashboard files. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the analytics project.
1. Select **Settings** > **Analytics**.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Create a dashboard by configuration

You can create dashboards manually by configuration.

To define a dashboard:

1. In `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/`, create a directory named like the dashboard.

   Each dashboard should have its own directory.
1. In the new directory, create a `.yaml` file with the same name as the directory, for example `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/my_dashboard/my_dashboard.yaml`.

   This file contains the dashboard definition. It must conform to the JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.
1. Optional. To create new visualizations to add to your dashboard, see [defining a chart visualization template](#define-a-chart-visualization-template).

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/dashboards/audience.yaml), if you want to create three dashboards (Conversion funnels, Demographic breakdown, and North star metrics)
and one visualization (line chart) that applies to all dashboards, the file structure looks like this:

```plaintext
.gitlab/analytics/dashboards
├── conversion_funnels
│  └── conversion_funnels.yaml
├── demographic_breakdown
│  └── demographic_breakdown.yaml
├── north_star_metrics
|  └── north_star_metrics.yaml
├── visualizations
│  └── example_line_chart.yaml
```

### Dashboard filters

Dashboards support the following filters:

- **Date range**: Date selector to filter data by date.
- **Anonymous users**: Toggle to include or exclude anonymous users from the dataset.

To enable filters, in the `.yaml` configuration file set the filter's `enabled` option to `true`:

```yaml
title: My dashboard
# ...
filters:
  excludeAnonymousUsers:
    enabled: true
  dateRange:
    enabled: true
```

See a complete [dashboard configuration example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/dashboards/audience.yaml).

### Define an inline chart visualization

You can define different charts and add visualization options to some of them, such as:

- Line chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Column chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Data table.
- Single stat, with the only option to set `decimalPlaces` (number, default value is 0).
This process can also be followed for user-created dashboards. Each visualization must be written with the following
required fields:

- version
- type
- data
- options

### Define a chart visualization template

{{< alert type="note" >}}

We recommend using visualization templates sparingly. Visualization templates can lead to long visualization
selection lists in the dashboard editor UI if not managed, which may lead to visualizations being missed or duplicated.
Generally, visualization templates should be reserved for visualizations that will be used identically
across several dashboards.

{{< /alert >}}

If you need a visualization to be used by multiple dashboards, you might store them as separate template files.
When added to a dashboard, the visualization template will be copied over to the dashboard. Visualization templates
copied to dashboards are not updated when the visualization template is updated.

To define a chart visualization template for your dashboards:

1. In the `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/visualizations/` directory, create a `.yaml` file.
   The filename should be descriptive of the visualization it defines.
1. In the `.yaml` file, define the visualization configuration, according to the schema in
   `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/visualizations/events_over_time.yaml), to create a line chart that illustrates event count over time, in the `visualizations` folder
create a `line_chart.yaml` file with the following required fields:

- version
- type
- data
- options

## Troubleshooting

### `Something went wrong while loading the dashboard.`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that data could not be loaded, first try reloading the page.
If the error persists:

- Check that your configurations match the dashboard JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.

### `Invalid dashboard configuration`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that the configuration is invalid, check that your configurations match the dashboard JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.

### `Invalid visualization configuration`

If a dashboard panel displays a message that the visualization configuration is invalid,
check that your visualization configurations match the [visualization JSON schema](#define-a-chart-visualization-template)
defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

### Dashboard panel error

If a dashboard panel displays an error message:

- Make sure your [visualization](analytics_dashboards.md#define-a-chart-visualization-template) configuration is set up correctly.
