doc/user/project/pages/pages_access_control.md, before:

---
stage: Plan
group: Knowledge
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: GitLab Pages access control
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Group SAML SSO support for Pages [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/326288) in GitLab 18.2 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `ff_oauth_redirect_to_sso_login`. Disabled by default.
- Group SAML SSO support for OAuth applications [enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/200682) in GitLab 18.3.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/561778) in GitLab 18.5. Feature flag `ff_oauth_redirect_to_sso_login` removed.

{{< /history >}}

You can enable Pages access control on your project
if your administrator has [enabled the access control feature](../../../administration/pages/_index.md#access-control)
on your GitLab instance. When enabled, only authenticated
[members of your project](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions)
(at least Guest) can access your website, by default:

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
For a demonstration, see [Pages access controls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tSPAr5mQYc8).

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Toggle the **Pages** button to enable the access control. If you don't see the toggle button,
   that means it isn't enabled. Ask your administrator to [enable it](../../../administration/pages/_index.md#access-control).

1. The Pages access control dropdown list allows you to set who can view pages hosted
   with GitLab Pages, depending on your project's visibility:

   - If your project is private:
     - **Only project members**: Only project members are able to browse the website.
     - **Everyone**: Everyone, both logged into and logged out of GitLab, is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership.
   - If your project is internal:
     - **Only project members**: Only project members are able to browse the website.
     - **Everyone with access**: Everyone logged into GitLab is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership. [External users](../../../administration/external_users.md) can access the website only if they have a membership in the project.
     - **Everyone**: Everyone, both logged into and logged out of GitLab, is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership.
   - If your project is public:
     - **Only project members**: Only project members are able to browse the website.
     - **Everyone with access**: Everyone, both logged into and logged out of GitLab, is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership.

1. Select **Save changes**. Your changes may not take effect immediately. GitLab Pages uses
   a caching mechanism for efficiency. Your changes may not take effect until that cache is
   invalidated, which usually takes less than a minute.

The next time someone tries to access your website and the access control is
enabled, they're presented with a page to sign in to GitLab and verify they
can access the website.

When [SAML SSO](../../group/saml_sso/_index.md) is configured for the associated group
and the access control is enabled, users must authenticate using SSO before accessing the website.

## Remove public access for group Pages

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/254962) in GitLab 17.9.

{{< /history >}}

Configure a setting for the group to remove the public visibility option for Pages.
When enabled, all projects in the group and its subgroups lose the ability to use the "Everyone" visibility
level and are restricted to project members or everyone with access, depending on the project's visibility setting.

Prerequisites

- Public access to Pages must not be [disabled at the instance level.](../../../administration/pages/_index.md#disable-public-access-to-all-pages-sites)
- You must have the Owner role for the group.

To do this:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Permissions and group features**.
1. Under **Pages public access**, select the **Remove public access** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

GitLab Pages uses a cache for efficiency. Changes to access settings typically take effect within one minute when the cache updates.

## Authenticate with an access token

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-pages/-/issues/388) in GitLab 17.10.

{{< /history >}}

To authenticate against a restricted GitLab Pages site, you can provide the `Authorization` header with an access token.

Prerequisites:

- You must have one of the following access tokens with the `read_api` scope:
  - [Personal access token](../../profile/personal_access_tokens.md#create-a-personal-access-token)
  - [Project access token](../settings/project_access_tokens.md#create-a-project-access-token)
  - [Group access token](../../group/settings/group_access_tokens.md#create-a-group-access-token)
  - [OAuth 2.0 token](../../../api/oauth2.md)

For example, to use an access token with OAuth-compliant headers:

```shell
curl --header "Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>" <published_pages_url>
```

For invalid or unauthorized access tokens, returns [`404`](../../../api/rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes).

## Terminating a Pages session

To sign out of your GitLab Pages website, revoke the application access token
for GitLab Pages:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **Applications**.
1. In the **Authorized applications** section, find the **GitLab Pages**
   entry, and select **Revoke**.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/user/project/pages/pages_access_control.md, after:

---
stage: Plan
group: Knowledge
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: GitLab Pages access control
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Group SAML SSO support for Pages [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/326288) in GitLab 18.2 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `ff_oauth_redirect_to_sso_login`. Disabled by default.
- Group SAML SSO support for OAuth applications [enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/200682) in GitLab 18.3.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/561778) in GitLab 18.5. Feature flag `ff_oauth_redirect_to_sso_login` removed.

{{< /history >}}

You can enable Pages access control on your project
if your administrator has [enabled the access control feature](../../../administration/pages/_index.md#access-control)
on your GitLab instance. When enabled, only authenticated
[members of your project](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions)
(at least Guest) can access your website, by default:

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
For a demonstration, see [Pages access controls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tSPAr5mQYc8).

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Toggle the **Pages** button to enable the access control. If you don't see the toggle button,
   that means it isn't enabled. Ask your administrator to [enable it](../../../administration/pages/_index.md#access-control).

1. The Pages access control dropdown list allows you to set who can view pages hosted
   with GitLab Pages, depending on your project's visibility:

   - If your project is private:
     - **Only project members**: Only project members are able to browse the website.
     - **Everyone**: Everyone, both logged into and logged out of GitLab, is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership.
   - If your project is internal:
     - **Only project members**: Only project members are able to browse the website.
     - **Everyone with access**: Everyone logged into GitLab is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership. [External users](../../../administration/external_users.md) can access the website only if they have a membership in the project.
     - **Everyone**: Everyone, both logged into and logged out of GitLab, is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership.
   - If your project is public:
     - **Only project members**: Only project members are able to browse the website.
     - **Everyone with access**: Everyone, both logged into and logged out of GitLab, is able to browse the website, no matter their project membership.

1. Select **Save changes**. Your changes may not take effect immediately. GitLab Pages uses
   a caching mechanism for efficiency. Your changes may not take effect until that cache is
   invalidated, which usually takes less than a minute.

The next time someone tries to access your website and the access control is
enabled, they're presented with a page to sign in to GitLab and verify they
can access the website.

When [SAML SSO](../../group/saml_sso/_index.md) is configured for the associated group
and the access control is enabled, users must authenticate using SSO before accessing the website.

## Remove public access for group Pages

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/254962) in GitLab 17.9.

{{< /history >}}

Configure a setting for the group to remove the public visibility option for Pages.
When enabled, all projects in the group and its subgroups lose the ability to use the "Everyone" visibility
level and are restricted to project members or everyone with access, depending on the project's visibility setting.

Prerequisites

- Public access to Pages must not be [disabled at the instance level.](../../../administration/pages/_index.md#disable-public-access-to-all-pages-sites)
- You must have the Owner role for the group.

To do this:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Permissions and group features**.
1. Under **Pages public access**, select the **Remove public access** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

GitLab Pages uses a cache for efficiency. Changes to access settings typically take effect within one minute when the cache updates.

## Authenticate with an access token

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-pages/-/issues/388) in GitLab 17.10.

{{< /history >}}

To authenticate against a restricted GitLab Pages site, you can provide the `Authorization` header with an access token.

Prerequisites:

- You must have one of the following access tokens with the `read_api` scope:
  - [Personal access token](../../profile/personal_access_tokens.md#create-a-personal-access-token)
  - [Project access token](../settings/project_access_tokens.md#create-a-project-access-token)
  - [Group access token](../../group/settings/group_access_tokens.md#create-a-group-access-token)
  - [OAuth 2.0 token](../../../api/oauth2.md)

For example, to use an access token with OAuth-compliant headers:

```shell
curl --header "Authorization: Bearer <your_access_token>" <published_pages_url>
```

For invalid or unauthorized access tokens, returns [`404`](../../../api/rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes).

## Terminating a Pages session

To sign out of your GitLab Pages website, revoke the application access token
for GitLab Pages:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **Applications**.
1. In the **Authorized applications** section, find the **GitLab Pages**
   entry, and select **Revoke**.
