doc/user/project/issues/issue_work_items.md, before:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Test a new look for issues
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- Status: Beta

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9584) in GitLab 17.5 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `work_items_view_preference`. Disabled by default. This feature is in [beta](../../../policy/development_stages_support.md#beta).
- Feature flag named `work_items_view_preference` enabled on GitLab.com in GitLab 17.9 for a subset of users.
- Feature flag named `work_items_view_preference` [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184496) on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated in 17.10.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

<!-- When issues as work items are generally available and `work_items_view_preference` flag is removed,
incorporate this content into issues/index.md or managing_issues.md and redirect this page there -->

We have changed how issues look by migrating them to a unified framework for work items to better
meet the product needs of our Agile Planning offering.

These changes include a new drawer view of issues opened from the issue list, issue board, or child or linked items, a new creation workflow for issues and incidents, and a new view for issues.

For more information, see [epic 9584](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9584) and the
blog post
[First look: The new Agile planning experience in GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2024/06/18/first-look-the-new-agile-planning-experience-in-gitlab/) (June 2024).

## Feedback

Find a bug or have a request? Leave feedback in [issue 523713](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/523713).

## New features

The new issues experience includes these improvements:

- **Drawer view**: When you open an issue from the issue list, board, or child or linked item list, the issue opens in a
  drawer without leaving the current page.
  The drawer provides a complete view of the issue.
  To view the full page instead, either:
  1. Select **View in full page** at the top of the drawer.
  1. Open the link in a new tab.
- **Issue controls**: All issue controls, including confidentiality settings, are now in the top actions menu.
  This menu stays visible as you scroll through the page.
- **Redesigned sidebar**: The sidebar is now embedded in the page, similar to merge requests and epics.
  On smaller screens, the sidebar content appears below the description.
- **Parent hierarchy**: Above the title, you can view the entire hierarchy this item belongs to.
  The sidebar also displays the parent work item (previously called "Epic").
- **Change type**: You can change between different types of items:
  1. From the top actions menu, select **Change type**.
  1. Select the new type: Issue, Task, Incident, or Epic.
     When you change an issue to an epic, the epic is created in the parent group because epics can
     only exist in groups.
- **Development**: Merge requests, branches, and feature flags related to this item are shown in a single list.

## Toggle the new experience

When you view an issue list or issue detail page, you can manage the new experience:

1. In the upper-right corner look for the **New look** badge.
1. Select the badge to toggle the experience on or off.

## Related topics

- [Work items development](../../../development/work_items.md)
- [Test a new look for epics](../../group/epics/epic_work_items.md)

Commit message:

Added issues to wi FF
Added feedback callout if FF is on

Updated pot file

Fixed some FF calls

Removed accident debugger

Added issues to wi FF

Added feedback callout if FF is on

Removed unused method

Fixed opt chaining need

Added missing canonical url

FF check with fixtures

doc/user/project/issues/issue_work_items.md, after:

---
stage: Plan
group: Project Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Test a new look for issues
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- Status: Beta

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9584) in GitLab 17.5 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `work_items_view_preference`. Disabled by default. This feature is in [beta](../../../policy/development_stages_support.md#beta).
- Feature flag named `work_items_view_preference` enabled on GitLab.com in GitLab 17.9 for a subset of users.
- Feature flag named `work_items_view_preference` [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184496) on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated in 17.10.
- **New look** toggle [hidden](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/182330) with feature flag named `work_item_view_for_issues`. Flag enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated in 17.11.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

<!-- When issues as work items are generally available and `work_items_view_preference` flag is removed,
incorporate this content into issues/index.md or managing_issues.md and redirect this page there -->

We have changed how issues look by migrating them to a unified framework for work items to better
meet the product needs of our Agile Planning offering.

These changes include a new drawer view of issues opened from the issue list, issue board, or child or linked items, a new creation workflow for issues and incidents, and a new view for issues.

For more information, see [epic 9584](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9584) and the
blog post
[First look: The new Agile planning experience in GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2024/06/18/first-look-the-new-agile-planning-experience-in-gitlab/) (June 2024).

## Feedback

Find a bug or have a request? Leave feedback in [issue 523713](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/523713).

## New features

The new issues experience includes these improvements:

- **Drawer view**: When you open an issue from the issue list, board, or child or linked item list, the issue opens in a
  drawer without leaving the current page.
  The drawer provides a complete view of the issue.
  To view the full page instead, either:
  1. Select **View in full page** at the top of the drawer.
  1. Open the link in a new tab.
- **Issue controls**: All issue controls, including confidentiality settings, are now in the top actions menu.
  This menu stays visible as you scroll through the page.
- **Redesigned sidebar**: The sidebar is now embedded in the page, similar to merge requests and epics.
  On smaller screens, the sidebar content appears below the description.
- **Parent hierarchy**: Above the title, you can view the entire hierarchy this item belongs to.
  The sidebar also displays the parent work item (previously called "Epic").
- **Change type**: You can change between different types of items:
  1. From the top actions menu, select **Change type**.
  1. Select the new type: Issue, Task, Incident, or Epic.
     When you change an issue to an epic, the epic is created in the parent group because epics can
     only exist in groups.
- **Development**: Merge requests, branches, and feature flags related to this item are shown in a single list.

## Toggle the new experience

When you view the Issues page or issue detail page, you can toggle the new experience.

Prerequisites:

- The feature flag `work_items_view_preference` must be enabled.
- The feature flag `work_item_view_for_issues` must be disabled.

To toggle the new issue look:

1. In the upper-right corner look for the **New look** badge.
1. Select the badge to toggle the experience on or off.

## Related topics

- [Work items development](../../../development/work_items.md)
- [Test a new look for epics](../../group/epics/epic_work_items.md)
