doc/ci/ci_cd_for_external_repos/github_integration.md, before:

---
stage: Verify
group: Pipeline Execution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Connect your GitHub repository to GitLab CI/CD.
title: Using GitLab CI/CD with a GitHub repository
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

GitLab CI/CD can be used with **GitHub.com** and **GitHub Enterprise** by
creating a [CI/CD project](_index.md) to connect your GitHub repository to
GitLab.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
Watch a video on [Using GitLab CI/CD pipelines with GitHub repositories](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgl3F2j-1cI).

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Because of [GitHub limitations](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/9147),
[GitHub OAuth](../../integration/github.md#enable-github-oauth-in-gitlab)
cannot be used to authenticate with GitHub as an external CI/CD repository.

{{< /alert >}}

## Connect with personal access token

Personal access tokens can only be used to connect GitHub.com
repositories to GitLab, and the GitHub user must have the [owner role](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/learning-about-github/access-permissions-on-github).

To perform a one-off authorization with GitHub to grant GitLab access your
repositories:

1. In GitHub, create a token:
   1. Open <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>.
   1. Create a personal access token.
   1. Enter a **Token description** and update the scope to allow
      `repo` and `admin:repo_hook` so that GitLab can access your project,
      update commit statuses, and create a web hook to notify GitLab of new commits.
1. In GitLab, create a project:
   1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**.
   1. Select **Run CI/CD for external repository**.
   1. Select **GitHub**.
   1. For **Personal access token**, paste the token.
   1. Select **List Repositories**.
   1. Select **Connect** to select the repository.
1. In GitHub, add a `.gitlab-ci.yml` to [configure GitLab CI/CD](../quick_start/_index.md).

GitLab:

1. Imports the project.
1. Enables [pull mirroring](../../user/project/repository/mirror/pull.md).
1. Enables [GitHub project integration](../../user/project/integrations/github.md).
1. Creates a web hook on GitHub to notify GitLab of new commits.

## Connect manually

To use **GitHub Enterprise** with **GitLab.com**, use this method.

To manually enable GitLab CI/CD for your repository:

1. In GitHub, create a token:
   1. Open <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>.
   1. Create a personal access token.
   1. Enter a **Token description** and update the scope to allow
      `repo` so that GitLab can access your project and update commit statuses.
1. In GitLab, create a project:
   1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**.
   1. Select **Run CI/CD for external repository** and **Repository by URL**.
   1. In the **Git repository URL** field, enter the HTTPS URL for your GitHub repository.
      If your project is private, use the personal access token you just created for authentication.
   1. Fill in all the other fields and select **Create project**.
      GitLab automatically configures polling-based pull mirroring.
1. In GitLab, enable [GitHub project integration](../../user/project/integrations/github.md):
   1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings** > **Integrations**.
   1. Select the **Active** checkbox.
   1. Paste your personal access token and HTTPS repository URL into the form and select **Save**.
1. In GitLab, create a personal access token with `API` scope to
   authenticate the GitHub web hook notifying GitLab of new commits.
1. In GitHub, from **Settings** > **Webhooks**, create a web hook to notify GitLab of
   new commits.

   The web hook URL should be set to the GitLab API to
   [trigger pull mirroring](../../api/project_pull_mirroring.md#start-the-pull-mirroring-process-for-a-project),
   using the GitLab personal access token you just created:

   ```plaintext
   https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/<NAMESPACE>%2F<PROJECT>/mirror/pull?private_token=<PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
   ```

   Select the **Let me select individual events** option, then check the **Pull requests** and **Pushes** checkboxes. These settings are needed for [pipelines for external pull requests](_index.md#pipelines-for-external-pull-requests).

1. In GitHub, add a `.gitlab-ci.yml` to configure GitLab CI/CD.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/ci/ci_cd_for_external_repos/github_integration.md, after:

---
stage: Verify
group: Pipeline Execution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Connect your GitHub repository to GitLab CI/CD.
title: Using GitLab CI/CD with a GitHub repository
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

GitLab CI/CD can be used with **GitHub.com** and **GitHub Enterprise** by
creating a [CI/CD project](_index.md) to connect your GitHub repository to
GitLab.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
Watch a video on [Using GitLab CI/CD pipelines with GitHub repositories](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qgl3F2j-1cI).

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Because of [GitHub limitations](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/9147),
[GitHub OAuth](../../integration/github.md#enable-github-oauth-in-gitlab)
cannot be used to authenticate with GitHub as an external CI/CD repository.

{{< /alert >}}

## Connect with personal access token

Personal access tokens can only be used to connect GitHub.com
repositories to GitLab, and the GitHub user must have the [owner role](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/learning-about-github/access-permissions-on-github).

To perform a one-off authorization with GitHub to grant GitLab access your
repositories:

1. In GitHub, create a token:
   1. Open <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>.
   1. Create a personal access token.
   1. Enter a **Token description** and update the scope to allow
      `repo` and `admin:repo_hook` so that GitLab can access your project,
      update commit statuses, and create a web hook to notify GitLab of new commits.
1. In GitLab, create a project:
   1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
   1. Select **Run CI/CD for external repository**.
   1. Select **GitHub**.
   1. For **Personal access token**, paste the token.
   1. Select **List Repositories**.
   1. Select **Connect** to select the repository.
1. In GitHub, add a `.gitlab-ci.yml` to [configure GitLab CI/CD](../quick_start/_index.md).

GitLab:

1. Imports the project.
1. Enables [pull mirroring](../../user/project/repository/mirror/pull.md).
1. Enables [GitHub project integration](../../user/project/integrations/github.md).
1. Creates a web hook on GitHub to notify GitLab of new commits.

## Connect manually

To use **GitHub Enterprise** with **GitLab.com**, use this method.

To manually enable GitLab CI/CD for your repository:

1. In GitHub, create a token:
   1. Open <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>.
   1. Create a personal access token.
   1. Enter a **Token description** and update the scope to allow
      `repo` so that GitLab can access your project and update commit statuses.
1. In GitLab, create a project:
   1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
   1. Select **Run CI/CD for external repository** and **Repository by URL**.
   1. In the **Git repository URL** field, enter the HTTPS URL for your GitHub repository.
      If your project is private, use the personal access token you just created for authentication.
   1. Fill in all the other fields and select **Create project**.
      GitLab automatically configures polling-based pull mirroring.
1. In GitLab, enable [GitHub project integration](../../user/project/integrations/github.md):
   1. On the left sidebar, select **Settings** > **Integrations**.
   1. Select the **Active** checkbox.
   1. Paste your personal access token and HTTPS repository URL into the form and select **Save**.
1. In GitLab, create a personal access token with `API` scope to
   authenticate the GitHub web hook notifying GitLab of new commits.
1. In GitHub, from **Settings** > **Webhooks**, create a web hook to notify GitLab of
   new commits.

   The web hook URL should be set to the GitLab API to
   [trigger pull mirroring](../../api/project_pull_mirroring.md#start-the-pull-mirroring-process-for-a-project),
   using the GitLab personal access token you just created:

   ```plaintext
   https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/<NAMESPACE>%2F<PROJECT>/mirror/pull?private_token=<PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN>
   ```

   Select the **Let me select individual events** option, then check the **Pull requests** and **Pushes** checkboxes. These settings are needed for [pipelines for external pull requests](_index.md#pipelines-for-external-pull-requests).

1. In GitHub, add a `.gitlab-ci.yml` to configure GitLab CI/CD.
