doc/user/organization/_index.md, before:

---
stage: Runtime
group: Organizations
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Organizations
description: Namespace hierarchy.
---

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/409913) in GitLab 16.1 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `ui_for_organizations`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/409913) in 16.1.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="disclaimer" />}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Organizations is in development.

{{< /alert >}}

Organizations will be above the [top-level namespaces](../namespace/_index.md) for you to manage
everything you do as a GitLab administrator, including:

- Defining and applying settings to all of your groups, subgroups, and projects.
- Aggregating data from all your groups, subgroups, and projects.

For more information about the state of organization development,
see [epic 9265](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9265).

## View organizations

To view the organizations you have access to:

- On the left sidebar, select **Organizations**.

## Create an organization

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Support for only private organizations is proposed for [cells 1.0](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12383).

{{< /alert >}}

1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New organization**.
1. In the **Organization name** text box, enter a name for the organization.
1. In the **Organization URL** text box, enter a path for the organization.
1. In the **Organization description** text box, enter a description for the organization. Supports a [limited subset of Markdown](#supported-markdown-for-organization-description).
1. In the **Organization avatar** field, select **Upload** or drag and drop an avatar.
1. Select **Create organization**.

## Edit an organization's name

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to edit.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. In the **Organization name** text box, edit the name.
1. In the **Organization description** text box, edit the description. Supports a [limited subset of Markdown](#supported-markdown-for-organization-description).
1. In the **Organization avatar** field, if an avatar is:
   - Selected, select **Remove avatar** to remove.
   - Not selected, select **Upload** or drag and drop an avatar.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change an organization's URL

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization whose URL you want to change.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand the **Advanced** section.
1. In the **Organization URL** text box, edit the URL.
1. Select **Change organization URL**.

## View an organization's visibility level

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Support for only private organizations is proposed for [cells 1.0](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12383).

{{< /alert >}}

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find your organization.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand the **Visibility** section.

## Switch organizations

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Switching between organizations is not supported in cells 1.0.
Support for switching organizations is proposed for [cells 1.5](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12505).

{{< /alert >}}

To switch organizations:

- On the left sidebar, in the upper corner, from the **Current organization** dropdown list select the organization you want to switch to.

## Manage groups and projects

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to manage.
1. Select **Manage** > **Groups and projects**.
1. Optional. Filter the results:
   - To search for specific groups or projects, in the search box enter your search term (minimum three characters).
   - To view only groups or projects, from the **Display** dropdown list select an option.
1. Optional. To sort the results by name, date created, or date updated, from the dropdown list select an option. Then select ascending ({{< icon name="sort-lowest" >}}) or descending ({{< icon name="sort-highest" >}}) order.

## Create a group in an organization

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to create a group in.
1. Select **Manage** > **Groups and projects**.
1. Select **New group**.
1. In the **Group name** text box, enter the name of the group. For a list of words that cannot be used as group names, see
   [reserved names](../reserved_names.md).
1. In the **Group URL** text box, enter the path for the group used for the [namespace](../namespace/_index.md).
1. Select the [**Visibility level**](../public_access.md) of the group.
1. Select **Create group**.

## View users

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to view.
1. Select **Manage** > **Users**.

## Change a user's role

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the organization.

To change a user's role:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to manage.
1. Select **Manage** > **Users**.
1. Find the user whose role you want to update.
1. From the **Organization role** dropdown list, select a role.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

If you cannot select from the **Organization role** dropdown list, this user is the organization's only Owner. To change this user's role, first assign the Owner role to another user.

{{< /alert >}}

## Supported Markdown for Organization description

The Organization description field supports a limited subset of [GitLab Flavored Markdown](../markdown.md), including:

- [Emphasis](../markdown.md#emphasis)
- [Links](../markdown.md#links)
- [Superscripts / Subscripts](../markdown.md#superscripts-and-subscripts)

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/user/organization/_index.md, after:

---
stage: Runtime
group: Organizations
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Organizations
description: Namespace hierarchy.
---

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/409913) in GitLab 16.1 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `ui_for_organizations`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/409913) in 16.1.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="disclaimer" />}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Organizations is in development.

{{< /alert >}}

Organizations will be above the [top-level namespaces](../namespace/_index.md) for you to manage
everything you do as a GitLab administrator, including:

- Defining and applying settings to all of your groups, subgroups, and projects.
- Aggregating data from all your groups, subgroups, and projects.

For more information about the state of organization development,
see [epic 9265](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9265).

## View organizations

To view the organizations you have access to:

- On the left sidebar, select **Organizations**.

## Create an organization

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Support for only private organizations is proposed for [cells 1.0](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12383).

{{< /alert >}}

1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New organization**. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. In the **Organization name** text box, enter a name for the organization.
1. In the **Organization URL** text box, enter a path for the organization.
1. In the **Organization description** text box, enter a description for the organization. Supports a [limited subset of Markdown](#supported-markdown-for-organization-description).
1. In the **Organization avatar** field, select **Upload** or drag and drop an avatar.
1. Select **Create organization**.

## Edit an organization's name

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to edit.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. In the **Organization name** text box, edit the name.
1. In the **Organization description** text box, edit the description. Supports a [limited subset of Markdown](#supported-markdown-for-organization-description).
1. In the **Organization avatar** field, if an avatar is:
   - Selected, select **Remove avatar** to remove.
   - Not selected, select **Upload** or drag and drop an avatar.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Change an organization's URL

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization whose URL you want to change.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand the **Advanced** section.
1. In the **Organization URL** text box, edit the URL.
1. Select **Change organization URL**.

## View an organization's visibility level

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Support for only private organizations is proposed for [cells 1.0](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12383).

{{< /alert >}}

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find your organization.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand the **Visibility** section.

## Switch organizations

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Switching between organizations is not supported in cells 1.0.
Support for switching organizations is proposed for [cells 1.5](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12505).

{{< /alert >}}

To switch organizations:

- On the left sidebar, in the upper corner, from the **Current organization** dropdown list select the organization you want to switch to.

## Manage groups and projects

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to manage.
1. Select **Manage** > **Groups and projects**.
1. Optional. Filter the results:
   - To search for specific groups or projects, in the search box enter your search term (minimum three characters).
   - To view only groups or projects, from the **Display** dropdown list select an option.
1. Optional. To sort the results by name, date created, or date updated, from the dropdown list select an option. Then select ascending ({{< icon name="sort-lowest" >}}) or descending ({{< icon name="sort-highest" >}}) order.

## Create a group in an organization

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to create a group in.
1. Select **Manage** > **Groups and projects**.
1. Select **New group**.
1. In the **Group name** text box, enter the name of the group. For a list of words that cannot be used as group names, see
   [reserved names](../reserved_names.md).
1. In the **Group URL** text box, enter the path for the group used for the [namespace](../namespace/_index.md).
1. Select the [**Visibility level**](../public_access.md) of the group.
1. Select **Create group**.

## View users

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to view.
1. Select **Manage** > **Users**.

## Change a user's role

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the organization.

To change a user's role:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Organizations** and find the organization you want to manage.
1. Select **Manage** > **Users**.
1. Find the user whose role you want to update.
1. From the **Organization role** dropdown list, select a role.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

If you cannot select from the **Organization role** dropdown list, this user is the organization's only Owner. To change this user's role, first assign the Owner role to another user.

{{< /alert >}}

## Supported Markdown for Organization description

The Organization description field supports a limited subset of [GitLab Flavored Markdown](../markdown.md), including:

- [Emphasis](../markdown.md#emphasis)
- [Links](../markdown.md#links)
- [Superscripts / Subscripts](../markdown.md#superscripts-and-subscripts)
