doc/user/project/members/_index.md, before:

---
stage: Runtime
group: Organizations
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Members of a project
description: User management, roles, permissions, and access levels.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Members are the users and groups who have access to your project. Members can be added directly to your
project or inherit access through groups.

Each member has a role that determines what they can do in the project. Project members with the
appropriate role can add users to projects, remove users from projects, and manage access requests to
control access to project resources.

## Membership types

{{< history >}}

- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/219230) to display invited group members on the Members tab of the Members page in GitLab 16.10 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `webui_members_inherited_users`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `webui_members_inherited_users` was [enabled on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/219230) in GitLab 17.0.
- Feature flag `webui_members_inherited_users` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/163627) in GitLab 17.4. Members of invited groups displayed by default.

{{< /history >}}

Users can become members of a group or project directly or indirectly.
Indirect membership can be inherited, shared, or inherited shared.

| Membership type                               | Membership process |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Direct | The user is added directly to the current group or project. |
| Inherited | The user is a member of a parent group that contains the current group or project. |
| [Shared](sharing_projects_groups.md) | The user is a member of a group invited to the current group or project. |
| [Inherited shared](sharing_projects_groups.md#invite-a-group-to-a-group) | The user is a member of a group invited to an ancestor of the current group or project. |
| Indirect | An umbrella term for inherited, shared, or inherited shared members. |

```mermaid
%%{init: { "fontFamily": "GitLab Sans" }}%%
flowchart RL
  accTitle: Membership types
  accDescr: Describes membership types and their inheritance

  subgraph Group A
    A(Direct member)
    B{{Shared member}}
    subgraph Project X
      H(Direct member)
      C{{Inherited member}}
      D{{Inherited shared member}}
      E{{Shared member}}
    end
    A-->|Inherited membership in Project X
         Direct membership in Group A|C
  end
  subgraph Group C
    G(Direct member)
  end
  subgraph Group B
    F(Direct member)
  end
  F-->|Group B
       invited to
       Group A|B
  B-->|Inherited membership in Project X
       Indirect membership in Group A|D
  G-->|Group C invited to Project X|E
```

![Project members page](img/project_members_v17_4.png)

In the previous example:

- **Administrator** is an inherited member from the **demo** group.
- **User 0** is an inherited member from the **demo** group.
- **User 1** is a shared member from the **Acme** group that is invited to this project.
- **User 2** is an inherited shared member from the **Toolbox** group that is invited to the **demo** group.
- **User 3** is a direct member added to this project.

## Security considerations

Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS).
Everyone who works with the source code has a local copy of the complete repository.

In GitLab, every project member with at least the Reporter role can clone the repository to create
a local copy.
Users can upload the full repository anywhere after they obtain a local copy, including:

- Another project under their control.
- A different server.
- External hosting services.

Access controls cannot prevent the intentional sharing of source code by users who already have
access to the repository.
All Git management platforms have this inherent characteristic of distributed version control
systems.

While you cannot prevent intentional sharing by authorized users, you can take the following steps
to prevent unintentional sharing and information destruction:

- Control who can [add users to a project](#add-users-to-a-project).
- Use [protected branches](../repository/branches/protected.md) to prevent unauthorized force pushes.
- Regularly review project membership and remove users who no longer require access.

## Add users to a project

{{< history >}}

- Expiring access email notification [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/12704) in GitLab 16.2.
- Access expiration date for direct members of subgroups and projects [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/471051) in GitLab 17.4.

{{< /history >}}

Add users to a project so they become direct members and have permission
to perform actions.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner or Maintainer role.
- [Group membership lock](../../group/access_and_permissions.md#prevent-members-from-being-added-to-projects-in-a-group) must be disabled.
- For GitLab Self-Managed instances:
  - If [new sign-ups are disabled](../../../administration/settings/sign_up_restrictions.md#disable-new-sign-ups), an administrator must add the user.
  - If [user invitations are not allowed](../../../administration/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.md#prevent-invitations-to-groups-and-projects), an administrator must add the user.
  - If [administrator approval is enabled](../../../administration/settings/sign_up_restrictions.md#turn-on-administrator-approval-for-role-promotions), an administrator must approve the invitation.

To add a user to a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Select **Invite members**.
1. If the user:

   - Has a GitLab account, enter their username.
   - Doesn't have a GitLab account, enter their email address.

1. Select a [default role](../../permissions.md) or [custom role](../../custom_roles/_index.md).
1. Optional. Select an **Access expiration date**.
   From that date onward, the user can no longer access the project.

   If you selected an access expiration date, the project member gets an email notification
   seven days before their access expires.

   {{< alert type="warning" >}}

   Maintainers have full permissions until their role expires, including the ability to
   extend their own access expiration date.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Select **Invite**.
   If you invited the user using their:

   - GitLab username, they are added to the members list.
   - Email address, an invitation is sent to their email address, and they are prompted to create an account.
     If the invitation is not accepted, GitLab sends reminder emails two, five, and ten days later.
     Unaccepted invites are automatically deleted after 90 days.

### Which roles you can assign

The maximum role you can assign depends on whether you have the Owner or Maintainer
role for the group. For example, the maximum role you can set is:

- Owner (`50`), if you have the Owner role for the project.
- Maintainer (`40`), if you have the Maintainer role on the project.

The Owner [role](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions) can be added for the group only.

## View project members

To view members of a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.

A table displays the member's:

- **Account** name and username.
- **Source** of their [membership](#membership-types).
  For transparency, GitLab displays all membership sources of project members.
  Members who have multiple membership sources are displayed and counted as separate members.
  For example, if a member has been added to the project both directly and through inheritance,
  the member is displayed twice in the **Members** table, with different sources,
  and is counted as two individual members of the project.
- [**Role**](#which-roles-you-can-assign) in the project.
- **Expiration** date of their project membership.
- **Activity** related to their account.

### View users pending promotion

If [administrator approval for role promotions](../../../administration/settings/sign_up_restrictions.md#turn-on-administrator-approval-for-role-promotions) is turned on, membership requests that promote existing users into a billable role require administrator approval.

To view users pending promotion:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Select **Role promotions** tab.

If the **Role promotions** tab is not displayed, the project has no pending promotions.

## Updating expiration and role

If a user is:

- A direct member of a project, the **Expiration** and **Role** fields can be updated directly on the project.
- An inherited, shared, or inherited shared member, the **Expiration** and **Role** fields must be updated on the group that the member originates from.

## Share a project with a group

Instead of adding users one by one, you can [share a project with an entire group](sharing_projects_groups.md).

## Import members from another project

You can import another project's direct members to your own project.
Imported project members retain the same permissions as the project you import them from.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Only direct members of a project are imported. Inherited or shared members of a project are not imported.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role.

If the importing member's role for the target project is:

- Maintainer, then members with the Owner role for the source project are imported with the Maintainer role.
- Owner, then members with the Owner role for the source project are imported with the Owner role.

To import a project's members:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Select **Import from a project**.
1. Select the project. You can view only the projects for which you're a maintainer.
1. Select **Import project members**.

If the import is successful, a success message is displayed.
To view the imported members on the **Members** tab, refresh the page.

## Remove a member from a project

If a user is:

- A direct member of a project, you can remove them directly from the project.
- An inherited member from a parent group, you can only remove them from the parent group itself.

Prerequisites:

- To remove direct members that have the:
  - Maintainer, Developer, Reporter, Planner, or Guest role, you must have the Maintainer role.
  - Owner role, you must have the Owner role.
- Optional. Unassign the member from all issues and merge requests that
  are assigned to them.

To remove a member from a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Next to the project member you want to remove, select **Remove member**.
1. Optional. On the confirmation dialog, select the
   **Also unassign this user from related issues and merge requests** checkbox.
1. To prevent leaks of sensitive information from private projects, verify the
   member has not forked the private repository or created webhooks. Existing forks continue to receive
   changes from the upstream project, and webhooks continue to receive updates. You may also want to configure your project
   to prevent projects in a group
   [from being forked outside their group](../../group/access_and_permissions.md#prevent-project-forking-outside-group).
1. Select **Remove member**.

## Ensure removed users cannot invite themselves back

Users with the Maintainer or Owner role could exploit a race condition that allows
them to rejoin groups or projects after an administrator removes them.

To avoid this problem, GitLab administrators can:

- Remove the malicious user session from the [GitLab Rails console](../../../administration/operations/rails_console.md).
- Impersonate the malicious user to:
  - Remove the user from the project.
  - Log the user out of GitLab.
- Block the malicious user account.
- Remove the malicious user account.
- Change the password for the malicious user account.

## Filter and sort project members

You can filter and sort members in a project.

### Display direct members

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. In the **Filter members** box, select `Membership` `=` `Direct`.
1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

### Display indirect members

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. In the **Filter members** box, select `Membership` `=` `Indirect`.
1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

### Search for members in a project

To search for a project member:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. In the search box, enter the member's name, username, or email.
1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

### Sort members in a project

You can sort members in ascending or descending order by:

- **Account** name
- **Access granted** date
- **Role** the members have in the project
- **User created** date
- **Last activity** date
- **Last sign-in** date

To sort members:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. At the top of the member list, from the dropdown list, select the item you want to sort by.

## Request access to a project

GitLab users can request to become a member of a project.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you want to be a member of.
1. In the upper right, select the vertical ellipsis ({{< icon name="ellipsis_v" >}}) and select **Request Access**.

An email is sent to the most recently active project Maintainers or Owners.
Up to ten project Maintainers or Owners are notified.
Any project Owner or Maintainer can approve or decline the request.
Project Maintainers cannot approve Owner role access requests.

If a project does not have any direct Owners or Maintainers, the most recently active Owners of the project's parent group receive the notification.

### Withdraw an access request to a project

You can withdraw an access request to a project before the request is approved.
To withdraw the access request:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you requested access to.
1. Next to the project name, select **Withdraw Access Request**.

## Prevent users from requesting access to a project

You can prevent users from requesting access to a project.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the project.
- The project must be public.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Under **Project visibility**, ensure the **Users can request access** checkbox is not selected.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Membership and visibility rights

Depending on their membership type, members of groups or projects are granted different [visibility levels](../../public_access.md)
and rights into the group or project.

The following table lists the membership and visibility rights of project members.

| Action | Direct project member | Inherited project member | Direct shared project member | Inherited shared project member |
| --- | ------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Generate boards | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View issues of parent groups <sup>1</sup> | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View labels of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View milestones of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| Be shared into other groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No |  {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No |
| Be imported into other projects | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No |
| Share the project with other members | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |

**Footnotes**:

1. Users can view only issues of projects they have access to.

The following table lists the membership and visibility rights of group members.

| Action | Direct group member | Inherited group member | Direct shared group member | Inherited shared group member |
| --- | ------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Generate boards | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View issues of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View labels of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View milestones of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |

In the following example, `User` is a:

- Direct member of `subgroup`.
- Inherited member of `subsubgroup`.
- Indirect member of `subgroup-2` and `subgroup-3`.
- Indirect inherited member of `subsubgroup-2` and `subsubgroup-3`.

```mermaid
%%{init: { "fontFamily": "GitLab Sans" }}%%
graph TD
  accTitle: Diagram of group inheritance
  accDescr: User inheritance, both direct and indirect through subgroups
  classDef user stroke:green,color:green;

  root --> subgroup --> subsubgroup
  root-2 --> subgroup-2 --> subsubgroup-2
  root-3 --> subgroup-3 --> subsubgroup-3
  subgroup -. shared .-> subgroup-2 -. shared .-> subgroup-3

  User-. member .- subgroup

  class User user
```

Commit message:

Document access request setting behavior for existing requests

doc/user/project/members/_index.md, after:

---
stage: Runtime
group: Organizations
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Members of a project
description: User management, roles, permissions, and access levels.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Members are the users and groups who have access to your project. Members can be added directly to your
project or inherit access through groups.

Each member has a role that determines what they can do in the project. Project members with the
appropriate role can add users to projects, remove users from projects, and manage access requests to
control access to project resources.

## Membership types

{{< history >}}

- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/219230) to display invited group members on the Members tab of the Members page in GitLab 16.10 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `webui_members_inherited_users`. Disabled by default.
- Feature flag `webui_members_inherited_users` was [enabled on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/219230) in GitLab 17.0.
- Feature flag `webui_members_inherited_users` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/163627) in GitLab 17.4. Members of invited groups displayed by default.

{{< /history >}}

Users can become members of a group or project directly or indirectly.
Indirect membership can be inherited, shared, or inherited shared.

| Membership type                               | Membership process |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Direct | The user is added directly to the current group or project. |
| Inherited | The user is a member of a parent group that contains the current group or project. |
| [Shared](sharing_projects_groups.md) | The user is a member of a group invited to the current group or project. |
| [Inherited shared](sharing_projects_groups.md#invite-a-group-to-a-group) | The user is a member of a group invited to an ancestor of the current group or project. |
| Indirect | An umbrella term for inherited, shared, or inherited shared members. |

```mermaid
%%{init: { "fontFamily": "GitLab Sans" }}%%
flowchart RL
  accTitle: Membership types
  accDescr: Describes membership types and their inheritance

  subgraph Group A
    A(Direct member)
    B{{Shared member}}
    subgraph Project X
      H(Direct member)
      C{{Inherited member}}
      D{{Inherited shared member}}
      E{{Shared member}}
    end
    A-->|Inherited membership in Project X
         Direct membership in Group A|C
  end
  subgraph Group C
    G(Direct member)
  end
  subgraph Group B
    F(Direct member)
  end
  F-->|Group B
       invited to
       Group A|B
  B-->|Inherited membership in Project X
       Indirect membership in Group A|D
  G-->|Group C invited to Project X|E
```

![Project members page](img/project_members_v17_4.png)

In the previous example:

- **Administrator** is an inherited member from the **demo** group.
- **User 0** is an inherited member from the **demo** group.
- **User 1** is a shared member from the **Acme** group that is invited to this project.
- **User 2** is an inherited shared member from the **Toolbox** group that is invited to the **demo** group.
- **User 3** is a direct member added to this project.

## Security considerations

Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS).
Everyone who works with the source code has a local copy of the complete repository.

In GitLab, every project member with at least the Reporter role can clone the repository to create
a local copy.
Users can upload the full repository anywhere after they obtain a local copy, including:

- Another project under their control.
- A different server.
- External hosting services.

Access controls cannot prevent the intentional sharing of source code by users who already have
access to the repository.
All Git management platforms have this inherent characteristic of distributed version control
systems.

While you cannot prevent intentional sharing by authorized users, you can take the following steps
to prevent unintentional sharing and information destruction:

- Control who can [add users to a project](#add-users-to-a-project).
- Use [protected branches](../repository/branches/protected.md) to prevent unauthorized force pushes.
- Regularly review project membership and remove users who no longer require access.

## Add users to a project

{{< history >}}

- Expiring access email notification [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/12704) in GitLab 16.2.
- Access expiration date for direct members of subgroups and projects [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/471051) in GitLab 17.4.

{{< /history >}}

Add users to a project so they become direct members and have permission
to perform actions.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner or Maintainer role.
- [Group membership lock](../../group/access_and_permissions.md#prevent-members-from-being-added-to-projects-in-a-group) must be disabled.
- For GitLab Self-Managed instances:
  - If [new sign-ups are disabled](../../../administration/settings/sign_up_restrictions.md#disable-new-sign-ups), an administrator must add the user.
  - If [user invitations are not allowed](../../../administration/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.md#prevent-invitations-to-groups-and-projects), an administrator must add the user.
  - If [administrator approval is enabled](../../../administration/settings/sign_up_restrictions.md#turn-on-administrator-approval-for-role-promotions), an administrator must approve the invitation.

To add a user to a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Select **Invite members**.
1. If the user:

   - Has a GitLab account, enter their username.
   - Doesn't have a GitLab account, enter their email address.

1. Select a [default role](../../permissions.md) or [custom role](../../custom_roles/_index.md).
1. Optional. Select an **Access expiration date**.
   From that date onward, the user can no longer access the project.

   If you selected an access expiration date, the project member gets an email notification
   seven days before their access expires.

   {{< alert type="warning" >}}

   Maintainers have full permissions until their role expires, including the ability to
   extend their own access expiration date.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Select **Invite**.
   If you invited the user using their:

   - GitLab username, they are added to the members list.
   - Email address, an invitation is sent to their email address, and they are prompted to create an account.
     If the invitation is not accepted, GitLab sends reminder emails two, five, and ten days later.
     Unaccepted invites are automatically deleted after 90 days.

### Which roles you can assign

The maximum role you can assign depends on whether you have the Owner or Maintainer
role for the group. For example, the maximum role you can set is:

- Owner (`50`), if you have the Owner role for the project.
- Maintainer (`40`), if you have the Maintainer role on the project.

The Owner [role](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions) can be added for the group only.

## View project members

To view members of a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.

A table displays the member's:

- **Account** name and username.
- **Source** of their [membership](#membership-types).
  For transparency, GitLab displays all membership sources of project members.
  Members who have multiple membership sources are displayed and counted as separate members.
  For example, if a member has been added to the project both directly and through inheritance,
  the member is displayed twice in the **Members** table, with different sources,
  and is counted as two individual members of the project.
- [**Role**](#which-roles-you-can-assign) in the project.
- **Expiration** date of their project membership.
- **Activity** related to their account.

### View users pending promotion

If [administrator approval for role promotions](../../../administration/settings/sign_up_restrictions.md#turn-on-administrator-approval-for-role-promotions) is turned on, membership requests that promote existing users into a billable role require administrator approval.

To view users pending promotion:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Select **Role promotions** tab.

If the **Role promotions** tab is not displayed, the project has no pending promotions.

## Updating expiration and role

If a user is:

- A direct member of a project, the **Expiration** and **Role** fields can be updated directly on the project.
- An inherited, shared, or inherited shared member, the **Expiration** and **Role** fields must be updated on the group that the member originates from.

## Share a project with a group

Instead of adding users one by one, you can [share a project with an entire group](sharing_projects_groups.md).

## Import members from another project

You can import another project's direct members to your own project.
Imported project members retain the same permissions as the project you import them from.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Only direct members of a project are imported. Inherited or shared members of a project are not imported.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role.

If the importing member's role for the target project is:

- Maintainer, then members with the Owner role for the source project are imported with the Maintainer role.
- Owner, then members with the Owner role for the source project are imported with the Owner role.

To import a project's members:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Select **Import from a project**.
1. Select the project. You can view only the projects for which you're a maintainer.
1. Select **Import project members**.

If the import is successful, a success message is displayed.
To view the imported members on the **Members** tab, refresh the page.

## Remove a member from a project

If a user is:

- A direct member of a project, you can remove them directly from the project.
- An inherited member from a parent group, you can only remove them from the parent group itself.

Prerequisites:

- To remove direct members that have the:
  - Maintainer, Developer, Reporter, Planner, or Guest role, you must have the Maintainer role.
  - Owner role, you must have the Owner role.
- Optional. Unassign the member from all issues and merge requests that
  are assigned to them.

To remove a member from a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Next to the project member you want to remove, select **Remove member**.
1. Optional. On the confirmation dialog, select the
   **Also unassign this user from related issues and merge requests** checkbox.
1. To prevent leaks of sensitive information from private projects, verify the
   member has not forked the private repository or created webhooks. Existing forks continue to receive
   changes from the upstream project, and webhooks continue to receive updates. You may also want to configure your project
   to prevent projects in a group
   [from being forked outside their group](../../group/access_and_permissions.md#prevent-project-forking-outside-group).
1. Select **Remove member**.

## Ensure removed users cannot invite themselves back

Users with the Maintainer or Owner role could exploit a race condition that allows
them to rejoin groups or projects after an administrator removes them.

To avoid this problem, GitLab administrators can:

- Remove the malicious user session from the [GitLab Rails console](../../../administration/operations/rails_console.md).
- Impersonate the malicious user to:
  - Remove the user from the project.
  - Log the user out of GitLab.
- Block the malicious user account.
- Remove the malicious user account.
- Change the password for the malicious user account.

## Filter and sort project members

You can filter and sort members in a project.

### Display direct members

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. In the **Filter members** box, select `Membership` `=` `Direct`.
1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

### Display indirect members

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. In the **Filter members** box, select `Membership` `=` `Indirect`.
1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

### Search for members in a project

To search for a project member:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. In the search box, enter the member's name, username, or email.
1. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

### Sort members in a project

You can sort members in ascending or descending order by:

- **Account** name
- **Access granted** date
- **Role** the members have in the project
- **User created** date
- **Last activity** date
- **Last sign-in** date

To sort members:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. At the top of the member list, from the dropdown list, select the item you want to sort by.

## Request access to a project

GitLab users can request to become a member of a project.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you want to be a member of.
1. In the upper right, select the vertical ellipsis ({{< icon name="ellipsis_v" >}}) and select **Request Access**.

An email is sent to the most recently active project Maintainers or Owners.
Up to ten project Maintainers or Owners are notified.
Any project Owner or Maintainer can approve or decline the request.
Project Maintainers cannot approve Owner role access requests.

If a project does not have any direct Owners or Maintainers, the most recently active Owners of the project's parent group receive the notification.

### Withdraw an access request to a project

You can withdraw an access request to a project before the request is approved.
To withdraw the access request:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you requested access to.
1. Next to the project name, select **Withdraw Access Request**.

## Prevent users from requesting access to a project

You can prevent users from requesting access to a project.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the project.
- The project must be public.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Visibility, project features, permissions**.
1. Under **Project visibility**, ensure the **Users can request access** checkbox is not selected.
1. Select **Save changes**.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Disabling the **Allow users to request access** setting prevents new access requests.
Existing pending requests are not removed and can still be approved or denied.

{{< /alert >}}

## Membership and visibility rights

Depending on their membership type, members of groups or projects are granted different [visibility levels](../../public_access.md)
and rights into the group or project.

The following table lists the membership and visibility rights of project members.

| Action | Direct project member | Inherited project member | Direct shared project member | Inherited shared project member |
| --- | ------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Generate boards | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View issues of parent groups <sup>1</sup> | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View labels of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View milestones of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| Be shared into other groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No |  {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No |
| Be imported into other projects | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No | {{< icon name="dotted-circle" >}} No |
| Share the project with other members | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |

**Footnotes**:

1. Users can view only issues of projects they have access to.

The following table lists the membership and visibility rights of group members.

| Action | Direct group member | Inherited group member | Direct shared group member | Inherited shared group member |
| --- | ------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Generate boards | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View issues of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View labels of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |
| View milestones of parent groups | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes | {{< icon name="check-circle" >}} Yes |

In the following example, `User` is a:

- Direct member of `subgroup`.
- Inherited member of `subsubgroup`.
- Indirect member of `subgroup-2` and `subgroup-3`.
- Indirect inherited member of `subsubgroup-2` and `subsubgroup-3`.

```mermaid
%%{init: { "fontFamily": "GitLab Sans" }}%%
graph TD
  accTitle: Diagram of group inheritance
  accDescr: User inheritance, both direct and indirect through subgroups
  classDef user stroke:green,color:green;

  root --> subgroup --> subsubgroup
  root-2 --> subgroup-2 --> subsubgroup-2
  root-3 --> subgroup-3 --> subsubgroup-3
  subgroup -. shared .-> subgroup-2 -. shared .-> subgroup-3

  User-. member .- subgroup

  class User user
```
