doc/tutorials/observability/observability_django_tutorial.md, before:

---
stage: Analytics
group: Platform Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: 'Tutorial: Use GitLab Observability with a Django application'
---

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
<!-- Update this note when observability_features flag is removed -->

{{< /alert >}}

In this tutorial, we'll show you how to create, configure, instrument, and monitor a Django application using GitLab observability features.

<!-- vale gitlab_base.SentenceSpacing = NO -->
<!-- vale gitlab_base.FutureTense = NO -->

## Before you begin

To follow along this tutorial, you should have:

- A GitLab Ultimate subscription for GitLab.com or GitLab Self-Managed
- A local installation of Python 3 and Django (You can install it with `python -m pip install Django`.)
- Basic knowledge of Git and Python
- Basic knowledge of the core concepts of [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/)

## Create a GitLab project

First, create a GitLab project and a corresponding access token.
This tutorial uses the project name `animals`.

1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**.
1. Select **Create blank project**.
1. Enter the project details.
   - In the **Project name** field, enter `animals`.
1. Select **Create project**.
1. In the `animals` project, on the left sidebar, select **Settings** > **Access tokens**.
1. Create an access token with the `api` scope and Developer role. Store the token value somewhere safe because you need it later.

## Create a Django application

To create an application:

1. From the command line, run the command:

   ```shell
   python -m django startproject animals_app
   ```

1. Check that the Django server is running correctly:

   ```shell
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

1. Ensure that the server is running correctly by visiting `http://localhost:8000`.
1. A Django projects contains multiple applications within a project. To create an application to manage our list of fake animals, run the command:

   ```shell
   python manage.py startapp animals
   ```

1. To create the initial view for the new `animals` application, in the `animals/views.py` file add the following code:

   ```python
   from django.http import HttpResponse

   def index(request):
       return HttpResponse("This is where the list of animals will be shown.")
   ```

1. In `animals/urls.py`, add the following code:

   ```python
   from django.urls import path
   from . import views

   urlpatterns = [
       path('', views.index, name='index'),
   ]
   ```

1. Additionally, update the room `urls.py` to include the `animals` app:

   ```python
   path('animals/', include('animals.urls'))
   ```

1. In `animals_app/settings.py`, add the application:

   ```python
   INSTALLED_APPS = [
       ...
       'animals.apps.AnimalsConfig',
   ]
   ```

1. In `animals/models.py`, create a model to define an animal:

   ```python
   from django.db import models
   class Animal(models.Model):
       name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
       number_of_legs = models.IntegerField(default=2)
       dangerous = models.BooleanField(default=False)
   ```

1. With the model defined, create a database migration. This will create a file that describes the changes to the database.

   ```shell
   python manage.py makemigrations animals
   ```

1. Run the newly created migration:

   ```shell
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

## Instrument the application with OpenTelemetry

1. Install the required dependencies:

   ```shell
   pip install opentelemetry-api opentelemetry-sdk opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-proto-http
   ```

1. Metrics and traces require different imports. In the `manage.py` file, import the required modules:

   ```python
   from opentelemetry.instrumentation.django import DjangoInstrumentor

   from opentelemetry.sdk.resources import SERVICE_NAME, Resource

   from opentelemetry import trace
   from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.http.trace_exporter import OTLPSpanExporter
   from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
   from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchSpanProcessor

   from opentelemetry import metrics
   from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.http.metric_exporter import OTLPMetricExporter
   from opentelemetry.sdk.metrics import MeterProvider
   from opentelemetry.sdk.metrics.export import PeriodicExportingMetricReader, ConsoleMetricExporter
   ```

1. To instrument the application, in the `manage.py` file, add the following code.
   - Replace `{{PROJECT_ACCESS_TOKEN}}` and `{{PROJECT_ID}}` with the values from your project.
   - If you're using GitLab Self-Managed, replace `gitlab.com` with your GitLab Self-Managed instance hostname.

   ```python
   resource = Resource(attributes={
       SERVICE_NAME: "animals-django"
   })
   os.environ.setdefault('OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS', "PRIVATE-TOKEN={{PROJECT_ACCESS_TOKEN}}")
   traceProvider = TracerProvider(resource=resource)
   processor = BatchSpanProcessor(OTLPSpanExporter(endpoint="https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/{{PROJECT_ID}}/observability/v1/traces"))
   traceProvider.add_span_processor(processor)
   trace.set_tracer_provider(traceProvider)

   reader = PeriodicExportingMetricReader(
       OTLPMetricExporter(endpoint="https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/{{PROJECT_ID}}/observability/v1/metrics")
   )
   meterProvider = MeterProvider(resource=resource, metric_readers=[reader])
   metrics.set_meter_provider(meterProvider)
   meter = metrics.get_meter("default.meter")

   """Run administrative tasks."""
   os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'animals_app.settings')
   DjangoInstrumentor().instrument()
   ```

  This code defines the service name `animals-django`, authenticates with GitLab, and instruments the application.

1. To start collecting traces, restart the Django server. After refreshing `/animals` a few times, you should see traces in the GitLab UI.

   ![Django traces](img/django_traces_v17_3.png)

1. Optional. Django will also export certain metrics by default to GitLab, but custom metrics are supported too. For example, to increment a counter metric every time a page is loaded, add the following code:

   ```python
   meter = metrics.get_meter("default.meter")
    work_counter = meter.create_counter(
        "animals.viewed.counter", unit="1", description="Counts the number of times the list of animals was viewed"
    )

    work_counter.add(1)
   ```

  ![Django metrics](img/django_metrics_v17_3.png)

<!-- vale gitlab_base.SentenceSpacing = YES -->

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/tutorials/observability/observability_django_tutorial.md, after:

---
stage: Analytics
group: Platform Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: 'Tutorial: Use GitLab Observability with a Django application'
---

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
<!-- Update this note when observability_features flag is removed -->

{{< /alert >}}

In this tutorial, we'll show you how to create, configure, instrument, and monitor a Django application using GitLab observability features.

<!-- vale gitlab_base.SentenceSpacing = NO -->
<!-- vale gitlab_base.FutureTense = NO -->

## Before you begin

To follow along this tutorial, you should have:

- A GitLab Ultimate subscription for GitLab.com or GitLab Self-Managed
- A local installation of Python 3 and Django (You can install it with `python -m pip install Django`.)
- Basic knowledge of Git and Python
- Basic knowledge of the core concepts of [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/)

## Create a GitLab project

First, create a GitLab project and a corresponding access token.
This tutorial uses the project name `animals`.

1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New project/repository**. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Create blank project**.
1. Enter the project details.
   - In the **Project name** field, enter `animals`.
1. Select **Create project**.
1. In the `animals` project, on the left sidebar, select **Settings** > **Access tokens**.
1. Create an access token with the `api` scope and Developer role. Store the token value somewhere safe because you need it later.

## Create a Django application

To create an application:

1. From the command line, run the command:

   ```shell
   python -m django startproject animals_app
   ```

1. Check that the Django server is running correctly:

   ```shell
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

1. Ensure that the server is running correctly by visiting `http://localhost:8000`.
1. A Django projects contains multiple applications within a project. To create an application to manage our list of fake animals, run the command:

   ```shell
   python manage.py startapp animals
   ```

1. To create the initial view for the new `animals` application, in the `animals/views.py` file add the following code:

   ```python
   from django.http import HttpResponse

   def index(request):
       return HttpResponse("This is where the list of animals will be shown.")
   ```

1. In `animals/urls.py`, add the following code:

   ```python
   from django.urls import path
   from . import views

   urlpatterns = [
       path('', views.index, name='index'),
   ]
   ```

1. Additionally, update the room `urls.py` to include the `animals` app:

   ```python
   path('animals/', include('animals.urls'))
   ```

1. In `animals_app/settings.py`, add the application:

   ```python
   INSTALLED_APPS = [
       ...
       'animals.apps.AnimalsConfig',
   ]
   ```

1. In `animals/models.py`, create a model to define an animal:

   ```python
   from django.db import models
   class Animal(models.Model):
       name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
       number_of_legs = models.IntegerField(default=2)
       dangerous = models.BooleanField(default=False)
   ```

1. With the model defined, create a database migration. This will create a file that describes the changes to the database.

   ```shell
   python manage.py makemigrations animals
   ```

1. Run the newly created migration:

   ```shell
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

## Instrument the application with OpenTelemetry

1. Install the required dependencies:

   ```shell
   pip install opentelemetry-api opentelemetry-sdk opentelemetry-exporter-otlp-proto-http
   ```

1. Metrics and traces require different imports. In the `manage.py` file, import the required modules:

   ```python
   from opentelemetry.instrumentation.django import DjangoInstrumentor

   from opentelemetry.sdk.resources import SERVICE_NAME, Resource

   from opentelemetry import trace
   from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.http.trace_exporter import OTLPSpanExporter
   from opentelemetry.sdk.trace import TracerProvider
   from opentelemetry.sdk.trace.export import BatchSpanProcessor

   from opentelemetry import metrics
   from opentelemetry.exporter.otlp.proto.http.metric_exporter import OTLPMetricExporter
   from opentelemetry.sdk.metrics import MeterProvider
   from opentelemetry.sdk.metrics.export import PeriodicExportingMetricReader, ConsoleMetricExporter
   ```

1. To instrument the application, in the `manage.py` file, add the following code.
   - Replace `{{PROJECT_ACCESS_TOKEN}}` and `{{PROJECT_ID}}` with the values from your project.
   - If you're using GitLab Self-Managed, replace `gitlab.com` with your GitLab Self-Managed instance hostname.

   ```python
   resource = Resource(attributes={
       SERVICE_NAME: "animals-django"
   })
   os.environ.setdefault('OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS', "PRIVATE-TOKEN={{PROJECT_ACCESS_TOKEN}}")
   traceProvider = TracerProvider(resource=resource)
   processor = BatchSpanProcessor(OTLPSpanExporter(endpoint="https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/{{PROJECT_ID}}/observability/v1/traces"))
   traceProvider.add_span_processor(processor)
   trace.set_tracer_provider(traceProvider)

   reader = PeriodicExportingMetricReader(
       OTLPMetricExporter(endpoint="https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/{{PROJECT_ID}}/observability/v1/metrics")
   )
   meterProvider = MeterProvider(resource=resource, metric_readers=[reader])
   metrics.set_meter_provider(meterProvider)
   meter = metrics.get_meter("default.meter")

   """Run administrative tasks."""
   os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'animals_app.settings')
   DjangoInstrumentor().instrument()
   ```

  This code defines the service name `animals-django`, authenticates with GitLab, and instruments the application.

1. To start collecting traces, restart the Django server. After refreshing `/animals` a few times, you should see traces in the GitLab UI.

   ![Django traces](img/django_traces_v17_3.png)

1. Optional. Django will also export certain metrics by default to GitLab, but custom metrics are supported too. For example, to increment a counter metric every time a page is loaded, add the following code:

   ```python
   meter = metrics.get_meter("default.meter")
    work_counter = meter.create_counter(
        "animals.viewed.counter", unit="1", description="Counts the number of times the list of animals was viewed"
    )

    work_counter.add(1)
   ```

  ![Django metrics](img/django_metrics_v17_3.png)

<!-- vale gitlab_base.SentenceSpacing = YES -->
