doc/administration/dedicated/create_instance.md, before:

---
stage: GitLab Dedicated
group: Switchboard
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Create your GitLab Dedicated instance with Switchboard.
title: Create your GitLab Dedicated instance
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

The instructions on this page guide you through the onboarding and initial setup of your GitLab Dedicated instance using [Switchboard](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/saas-platforms/switchboard/), the GitLab Dedicated portal.

## Step 1: Get access to Switchboard

Your GitLab Dedicated instance will be set up using Switchboard. To gain access to Switchboard,
provide the following information to your account team:

- Expected number of users.
- Initial storage size for your repositories in GB.
- Email addresses of any users that need to complete the onboarding and create your GitLab Dedicated instance.
- Whether you want to [bring your own encryption keys (BYOK)](#encrypted-data-at-rest-byok). If so, GitLab provides an AWS account ID, which is necessary to enable BYOK.
- Whether you want to use Geo migration for inbound migration of your Dedicated instance.

If you've been granted access to Switchboard, you will receive an email invitation with temporary
credentials to sign in.

The credentials for Switchboard are separate from any other GitLab credentials you may already have
to sign in to a GitLab Self-Managed instance or GitLab.com.

After you first sign in to Switchboard, you must update your password and set up MFA before you can
complete your onboarding to create a new instance.

### Encrypted Data At Rest (BYOK)

{{< alert type="note" >}}

To enable BYOK, you must do it before onboarding. If enabled, it is not possible to later disable BYOK.

{{< /alert >}}

You can opt to encrypt your GitLab data at rest with AWS KMS keys, which must be made accessible to GitLab Dedicated infrastructure. Due to key rotation requirements, GitLab Dedicated only supports keys with AWS-managed key material (the [AWS_KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#key-origin) origin type).

Encryption for data in motion (moving over a network) is performed with TLS using keys generated and managed by GitLab Dedicated components, and is not covered by BYOK.

In GitLab Dedicated, you can use KMS keys in two ways:

- One KMS key for all services
- Per-service KMS keys (Backup, EBS, RDS, S3, Advanced Search)
  - Keys do not need to be unique to each service.
  - All services must be encrypted at rest.
  - Selective enablement of this feature is not supported.
  - Keys do not need to be unique to each service.

#### Create KMS keys in AWS

After you have received the AWS account ID, create your KMS keys using the AWS Console:

1. In `Configure key`, select:
   1. Key type: **Symmetrical**
   1. Key usage: **Encrypt and decrypt**
   1. `Advanced options`:
      1. Key material origin: **KMS**
      1. Regionality: **Multi-Region key**
1. Enter your values for key alias, description, and tags.
1. Select key administrators.
1. Optional. Allow or prevent key administrators from deleting the key.
1. On the **Define key usage permissions** page, under **Other AWS accounts**, add the GitLab AWS account.

The last page asks you to confirm the KMS key policy. It should look similar to the following example, populated with your account IDs and usernames:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Id": "byok-key-policy",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Enable IAM User Permissions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<CUSTOMER-ACCOUNT-ID>:root"
            },
            "Action": "kms:*",
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Allow access for Key Administrators",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::<CUSTOMER-ACCOUNT-ID>:user/<CUSTOMER-USER>"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "kms:Create*",
                "kms:Describe*",
                "kms:Enable*",
                "kms:List*",
                "kms:Put*",
                "kms:Update*",
                "kms:Revoke*",
                "kms:Disable*",
                "kms:Get*",
                "kms:Delete*",
                "kms:TagResource",
                "kms:UntagResource",
                "kms:ScheduleKeyDeletion",
                "kms:CancelKeyDeletion",
                "kms:ReplicateKey",
                "kms:UpdatePrimaryRegion"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Allow use of the key",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::<GITLAB-ACCOUNT-ID>:root"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "kms:Encrypt",
                "kms:Decrypt",
                "kms:ReEncrypt*",
                "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
                "kms:DescribeKey"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Allow attachment of persistent resources",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::<GITLAB-ACCOUNT-ID>:root"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "kms:CreateGrant",
                "kms:ListGrants",
                "kms:RevokeGrant"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

For more information on how to create and manage KMS keys, see the [AWS KMS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/getting-started.html).

After you have created the keys, send GitLab the corresponding ARNs of each key so that GitLab can use to encrypt the data stored in your Dedicated instance.

Make sure the AWS KMS keys are replicated to your desired primary, secondary and backup region specified during [onboarding](#step-2-create-your-gitlab-dedicated-instance).

## Step 2: Create your GitLab Dedicated instance

After you sign in to Switchboard, follow these steps to create your instance:

1. On the **Account details** page, review and confirm your subscription settings. These settings are based on the information you provided to your account team:

   - **Reference architecture**: The maximum number of users allowed in your instance. For more information, see [availability and scalability](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#availability-and-scalability). For example, up to 3,000 users.

   - **Total repository capacity**: The total storage space available for all repositories in your instance. For example, 16 GB. This setting cannot be reduced after you create your instance. You can increase storage capacity later if needed.

   If you need to change either of these values, [submit a support ticket](https://support.gitlab.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=4414917877650).

1. On the **Configuration** page, choose your environment access, location, and maintenance window settings:

   - **Tenant name**: Enter a name for your tenant. This name is permanent unless you [bring your own domain](configure_instance/network_security.md#bring-your-own-domain-byod).

   - **Tenant URL**: Your instance URL is automatically generated as `<tenant_name>.gitlab-dedicated.com`.

   - **Primary region**: Select the primary AWS region to use for data storage. Note the
     [available AWS regions](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#available-aws-regions).

   - **Secondary region**: Select a secondary AWS region to use for data storage and [disaster recovery](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#disaster-recovery). This field does not appear for Geo migrations from an existing GitLab Self-Managed instance.

   - **Backup region**: Select a region to replicate and store your primary data backups.
     You can use the same option as your primary or secondary regions, or choose a different region for [increased redundancy](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#disaster-recovery).

   - **Time zone**: Select a weekly four-hour time slot when GitLab performs routine
     maintenance and upgrades. For more information, see [maintenance windows](../dedicated/maintenance.md#maintenance-windows).

1. Optional. On the **Security** page, add your [AWS KMS keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/overview.html) for encrypted AWS services. If you do not add keys, GitLab generates encryption keys for your instance. For more information, see [encrypting your data at rest](#encrypted-data-at-rest-byok).

1. On the **Tenant summary** page, review the tenant configuration details. After you confirm that the information you've provided in the previous steps is accurate, select  **Create tenant**.

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Confirm these settings carefully before you create your instance,
   as you cannot change them later:

   - Security keys and AWS KMS keys (BYOK) configuration
   - AWS regions (primary, secondary, backup)
   - Total repository capacity (you can increase storage but cannot reduce it)
   - Tenant name and URL (unless you [bring your own domain](configure_instance/network_security.md#bring-your-own-domain-byod))

   {{< /alert >}}

Your GitLab Dedicated instance can take up to three hours to create. GitLab sends a confirmation email when the setup is complete.

## Step 3: Access and configure your GitLab Dedicated instance

To access and configure your GitLab Dedicated instance:

1. Sign in to [Switchboard](https://console.gitlab-dedicated.com/).
1. In the **Access your GitLab Dedicated instance** banner, select **View credentials**.
1. Copy the tenant URL and temporary root credentials for your instance.

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   For security, you can retrieve the temporary root credentials from Switchboard only once. Be sure to store these credentials securely (for example, in a password manager) before leaving Switchboard.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Go to the tenant URL for your GitLab Dedicated instance and sign in with your temporary root credentials.
1. [Change your temporary root password](../../user/profile/user_passwords.md#change-your-password) to a new secure password.
1. Go to the Admin area and [add the license key](../license_file.md#add-license-in-the-admin-area) for your GitLab Dedicated subscription.
1. Return to Switchboard and [add users](../dedicated/configure_instance/users_notifications.md#add-switchboard-users), if needed.
1. Review the [release rollout schedule](../dedicated/maintenance.md#release-rollout-schedule) for upgrades and maintenance.

Also plan ahead if you need the following GitLab Dedicated features:

- [Inbound Private Link](../dedicated/configure_instance/network_security.md#inbound-private-link)
- [Outbound Private Link](../dedicated/configure_instance/network_security.md#outbound-private-link)
- [SAML SSO](../dedicated/configure_instance/saml.md)
- [Bring your own domain](../dedicated/configure_instance/network_security.md#bring-your-own-domain-byod)

To view all available infrastructure configuration options, see [Configure your GitLab Dedicated instance](../dedicated/configure_instance/_index.md).

{{< alert type="note" >}}

New GitLab Dedicated instances use the same default settings as GitLab Self-Managed. A GitLab administrator can change these settings from the [Admin Area](../admin_area.md).

{{< /alert >}}

Commit message:

Add sentence and cross-reference to regions with limited support

doc/administration/dedicated/create_instance.md, after:

---
stage: GitLab Dedicated
group: Switchboard
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Create your GitLab Dedicated instance with Switchboard.
title: Create your GitLab Dedicated instance
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

The instructions on this page guide you through the onboarding and initial setup of your GitLab Dedicated instance using [Switchboard](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/saas-platforms/switchboard/), the GitLab Dedicated portal.

## Step 1: Get access to Switchboard

Your GitLab Dedicated instance will be set up using Switchboard. To gain access to Switchboard,
provide the following information to your account team:

- Expected number of users.
- Initial storage size for your repositories in GB.
- Email addresses of any users that need to complete the onboarding and create your GitLab Dedicated instance.
- Whether you want to [bring your own encryption keys (BYOK)](#encrypted-data-at-rest-byok). If so, GitLab provides an AWS account ID, which is necessary to enable BYOK.
- Whether you want to use Geo migration for inbound migration of your Dedicated instance.

If you've been granted access to Switchboard, you will receive an email invitation with temporary
credentials to sign in.

The credentials for Switchboard are separate from any other GitLab credentials you may already have
to sign in to a GitLab Self-Managed instance or GitLab.com.

After you first sign in to Switchboard, you must update your password and set up MFA before you can
complete your onboarding to create a new instance.

### Encrypted Data At Rest (BYOK)

{{< alert type="note" >}}

To enable BYOK, you must do it before onboarding. If enabled, it is not possible to later disable BYOK.

{{< /alert >}}

You can opt to encrypt your GitLab data at rest with AWS KMS keys, which must be made accessible to GitLab Dedicated infrastructure. Due to key rotation requirements, GitLab Dedicated only supports keys with AWS-managed key material (the [AWS_KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#key-origin) origin type).

Encryption for data in motion (moving over a network) is performed with TLS using keys generated and managed by GitLab Dedicated components, and is not covered by BYOK.

In GitLab Dedicated, you can use KMS keys in two ways:

- One KMS key for all services
- Per-service KMS keys (Backup, EBS, RDS, S3, Advanced Search)
  - Keys do not need to be unique to each service.
  - All services must be encrypted at rest.
  - Selective enablement of this feature is not supported.
  - Keys do not need to be unique to each service.

#### Create KMS keys in AWS

After you have received the AWS account ID, create your KMS keys using the AWS Console:

1. In `Configure key`, select:
   1. Key type: **Symmetrical**
   1. Key usage: **Encrypt and decrypt**
   1. `Advanced options`:
      1. Key material origin: **KMS**
      1. Regionality: **Multi-Region key**
1. Enter your values for key alias, description, and tags.
1. Select key administrators.
1. Optional. Allow or prevent key administrators from deleting the key.
1. On the **Define key usage permissions** page, under **Other AWS accounts**, add the GitLab AWS account.

The last page asks you to confirm the KMS key policy. It should look similar to the following example, populated with your account IDs and usernames:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Id": "byok-key-policy",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Enable IAM User Permissions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<CUSTOMER-ACCOUNT-ID>:root"
            },
            "Action": "kms:*",
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Allow access for Key Administrators",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::<CUSTOMER-ACCOUNT-ID>:user/<CUSTOMER-USER>"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "kms:Create*",
                "kms:Describe*",
                "kms:Enable*",
                "kms:List*",
                "kms:Put*",
                "kms:Update*",
                "kms:Revoke*",
                "kms:Disable*",
                "kms:Get*",
                "kms:Delete*",
                "kms:TagResource",
                "kms:UntagResource",
                "kms:ScheduleKeyDeletion",
                "kms:CancelKeyDeletion",
                "kms:ReplicateKey",
                "kms:UpdatePrimaryRegion"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Allow use of the key",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::<GITLAB-ACCOUNT-ID>:root"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "kms:Encrypt",
                "kms:Decrypt",
                "kms:ReEncrypt*",
                "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
                "kms:DescribeKey"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Allow attachment of persistent resources",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": [
                    "arn:aws:iam::<GITLAB-ACCOUNT-ID>:root"
                ]
            },
            "Action": [
                "kms:CreateGrant",
                "kms:ListGrants",
                "kms:RevokeGrant"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

For more information on how to create and manage KMS keys, see the [AWS KMS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/getting-started.html).

After you have created the keys, send GitLab the corresponding ARNs of each key so that GitLab can use to encrypt the data stored in your Dedicated instance.

Make sure the AWS KMS keys are replicated to your desired primary, secondary and backup region specified during [onboarding](#step-2-create-your-gitlab-dedicated-instance).

## Step 2: Create your GitLab Dedicated instance

After you sign in to Switchboard, follow these steps to create your instance:

1. On the **Account details** page, review and confirm your subscription settings. These settings are based on the information you provided to your account team:

   - **Reference architecture**: The maximum number of users allowed in your instance. For more information, see [availability and scalability](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#availability-and-scalability). For example, up to 3,000 users.

   - **Total repository capacity**: The total storage space available for all repositories in your instance. For example, 16 GB. This setting cannot be reduced after you create your instance. You can increase storage capacity later if needed.

   If you need to change either of these values, [submit a support ticket](https://support.gitlab.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=4414917877650).

1. On the **Configuration** page, choose your environment access, location, and maintenance window settings:

   - **Tenant name**: Enter a name for your tenant. This name is permanent unless you [bring your own domain](configure_instance/network_security.md#bring-your-own-domain-byod).

   - **Tenant URL**: Your instance URL is automatically generated as `<tenant_name>.gitlab-dedicated.com`.

   - **Primary region**: Select the primary AWS region to use for data storage. Note the
     [available AWS regions](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#available-aws-regions).

   - **Secondary region**: Select a secondary AWS region to use for data storage and [disaster recovery](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#disaster-recovery). This field does not appear for Geo migrations from an existing GitLab Self-Managed instance. Some regions have [limited support](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#secondary-regions-with-limited-support).

   - **Backup region**: Select a region to replicate and store your primary data backups.
     You can use the same option as your primary or secondary regions, or choose a different region for [increased redundancy](../../subscriptions/gitlab_dedicated/data_residency_and_high_availability.md#disaster-recovery).

   - **Time zone**: Select a weekly four-hour time slot when GitLab performs routine
     maintenance and upgrades. For more information, see [maintenance windows](../dedicated/maintenance.md#maintenance-windows).

1. Optional. On the **Security** page, add your [AWS KMS keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/overview.html) for encrypted AWS services. If you do not add keys, GitLab generates encryption keys for your instance. For more information, see [encrypting your data at rest](#encrypted-data-at-rest-byok).

1. On the **Tenant summary** page, review the tenant configuration details. After you confirm that the information you've provided in the previous steps is accurate, select  **Create tenant**.

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Confirm these settings carefully before you create your instance,
   as you cannot change them later:

   - Security keys and AWS KMS keys (BYOK) configuration
   - AWS regions (primary, secondary, backup)
   - Total repository capacity (you can increase storage but cannot reduce it)
   - Tenant name and URL (unless you [bring your own domain](configure_instance/network_security.md#bring-your-own-domain-byod))

   {{< /alert >}}

Your GitLab Dedicated instance can take up to three hours to create. GitLab sends a confirmation email when the setup is complete.

## Step 3: Access and configure your GitLab Dedicated instance

To access and configure your GitLab Dedicated instance:

1. Sign in to [Switchboard](https://console.gitlab-dedicated.com/).
1. In the **Access your GitLab Dedicated instance** banner, select **View credentials**.
1. Copy the tenant URL and temporary root credentials for your instance.

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   For security, you can retrieve the temporary root credentials from Switchboard only once. Be sure to store these credentials securely (for example, in a password manager) before leaving Switchboard.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Go to the tenant URL for your GitLab Dedicated instance and sign in with your temporary root credentials.
1. [Change your temporary root password](../../user/profile/user_passwords.md#change-your-password) to a new secure password.
1. Go to the Admin area and [add the license key](../license_file.md#add-license-in-the-admin-area) for your GitLab Dedicated subscription.
1. Return to Switchboard and [add users](../dedicated/configure_instance/users_notifications.md#add-switchboard-users), if needed.
1. Review the [release rollout schedule](../dedicated/maintenance.md#release-rollout-schedule) for upgrades and maintenance.

Also plan ahead if you need the following GitLab Dedicated features:

- [Inbound Private Link](../dedicated/configure_instance/network_security.md#inbound-private-link)
- [Outbound Private Link](../dedicated/configure_instance/network_security.md#outbound-private-link)
- [SAML SSO](../dedicated/configure_instance/saml.md)
- [Bring your own domain](../dedicated/configure_instance/network_security.md#bring-your-own-domain-byod)

To view all available infrastructure configuration options, see [Configure your GitLab Dedicated instance](../dedicated/configure_instance/_index.md).

{{< alert type="note" >}}

New GitLab Dedicated instances use the same default settings as GitLab Self-Managed. A GitLab administrator can change these settings from the [Admin Area](../admin_area.md).

{{< /alert >}}
