doc/user/profile/account/account_succession.md, before:

---
stage: Software Supply Chain Security
group: Authentication
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Designate an account successor or account manager
description: Designate an account successor or account manager for your GitLab account.
ignore_in_report: true
noindex: true
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

You can grant individuals permission to access your GitLab account if you are unable to manage it
yourself. This ensures continuity of your work and projects.

## Account manager

A designated account manager can temporarily manage your GitLab account if you are unable to do so.
Account managers are commonly used in situations where you are legally or medically incapacitated,
or on a work sabbatical. The account manager can temporarily obtain full access to your account. All
activity performed during this time is associated with your username and user ID, and any commits or
comments display your username.

### Add an account manager

To add an account manager:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Select **Add account manager**.
1. Add the account manager details.
1. Select **Add account manager**.

### Edit an account manager

To edit an account manager:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account manager, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. Edit the account manager details.
1. Select **Add account manager**.

### Delete an account manager

To delete an account manager:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account manager, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}).
1. Select **Delete account manager**.

## Account successor

A designated account successor can assume permanent ownership of your GitLab account in the event
of your death. The account successor can permanently obtain full access to your account. All
activity performed after they take ownership is associated with your username and user ID, and
any commits or comments display your username. When you specify an account successor, you must
also specify their relationship to you.

### Add an account successor

To add an account successor:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Select **Add account successor**.
1. Add the account successor details.
1. Select **Add account successor**.

### Edit an account successor

To edit an account successor:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account successor, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. Edit the account successor details.
1. Select **Add account successor**.

### Delete an account successor

To delete an account successor:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account successor, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}).
1. Select **Delete account successor**.

Commit message:

UX for Account Beneficiaries
User is able to designate account beneficiaries, both manager and
successor.
Available for non-enterprise users on gitlab.com.

Changelog: added
EE: true

doc/user/profile/account/account_succession.md, after:

---
stage: Software Supply Chain Security
group: Authentication
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Designate an account successor or account manager
description: Designate an account successor or account manager for your GitLab account.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com

{{< /details >}}

You can grant individuals permission to access your GitLab account if you are unable to manage it
yourself. This ensures continuity of your work and projects.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

This feature is not available for enterprise users.

{{< /alert >}}

## Account manager

A designated account manager can temporarily manage your GitLab account if you are unable to do so.
Account managers are commonly used in situations where you are legally or medically incapacitated,
or on a work sabbatical. The account manager can temporarily obtain full access to your account. All
activity performed during this time is associated with your username and user ID, and any commits or
comments display your username.

### Add an account manager

To add an account manager:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Select **Add account manager**.
1. Add the account manager details.
1. Select **Add account manager**.

### Edit an account manager

To edit an account manager:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account manager, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. Edit the account manager details.
1. Select **Add account manager**.

### Delete an account manager

To delete an account manager:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account manager, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}).
1. Select **Delete account manager**.

## Account successor

A designated account successor can assume permanent ownership of your GitLab account in the event
of your death. The account successor can permanently obtain full access to your account. All
activity performed after they take ownership is associated with your username and user ID, and
any commits or comments display your username. When you specify an account successor, you must
also specify their relationship to you.

### Add an account successor

To add an account successor:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Select **Add account successor**.
1. Add the account successor details.
1. Select **Add account successor**.

### Edit an account successor

To edit an account successor:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account successor, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. Edit the account successor details.
1. Select **Add account successor**.

### Delete an account successor

To delete an account successor:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. Next to the account successor, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}).
1. Select **Delete account successor**.
