doc/api/dependencies.md, before:

---
stage: Application Security Testing
group: Composition Analysis
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Dependencies API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Every call to this endpoint requires authentication. To perform this call, user should be authorized to read repository.
To see vulnerabilities in response, user should be authorized to read
[Project Security Dashboard](../user/application_security/security_dashboard/_index.md).

## List project dependencies

Get a list of project dependencies. This API partially mirroring
[Dependency List](../user/application_security/dependency_list/_index.md) feature.
This list can be generated only for [languages and package managers](../user/application_security/dependency_scanning/_index.md#supported-languages-and-package-managers)
supported by Gemnasium.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/dependencies
GET /projects/:id/dependencies?package_manager=maven
GET /projects/:id/dependencies?package_manager=yarn,bundler
```

| Attribute     | Type           | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`          | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths).                                                            |
| `package_manager` | string array   | no       | Returns dependencies belonging to specified package manager. Valid values: `bundler`, `composer`, `conan`, `go`, `gradle`, `maven`, `npm`, `nuget`, `pip`, `pipenv`, `pnpm`, `yarn`, `sbt`, or `setuptools`. |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/4/dependencies"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "rails",
    "version": "5.0.1",
    "package_manager": "bundler",
    "dependency_file_path": "Gemfile.lock",
    "vulnerabilities": [
      {
        "name": "DDoS",
        "severity": "unknown",
        "id": 144827,
        "url": "https://gitlab.example.com/group/project/-/security/vulnerabilities/144827"
      }
    ],
    "licenses": [
      {
        "name": "MIT",
        "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "name": "hanami",
    "version": "1.3.1",
    "package_manager": "bundler",
    "dependency_file_path": "Gemfile.lock",
    "vulnerabilities": [],
    "licenses": [
      {
        "name": "MIT",
        "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

## Dependencies pagination

By default, `GET` requests return 20 results at a time because the API results
are paginated.

Read more on [pagination](rest/_index.md#pagination).

Commit message:

docs: add description metadata to dependencies API and tutorials

doc/api/dependencies.md, after:

---
stage: Application Security Testing
group: Composition Analysis
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Access the Dependencies API to retrieve project dependency information, including package details, versions, vulnerabilities, and licenses for supported package managers.
title: Dependencies API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Every call to this endpoint requires authentication. To perform this call, user should be authorized to read repository.
To see vulnerabilities in response, user should be authorized to read
[Project Security Dashboard](../user/application_security/security_dashboard/_index.md).

## List project dependencies

Get a list of project dependencies. This API partially mirroring
[Dependency List](../user/application_security/dependency_list/_index.md) feature.
This list can be generated only for [languages and package managers](../user/application_security/dependency_scanning/_index.md#supported-languages-and-package-managers)
supported by Gemnasium.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/dependencies
GET /projects/:id/dependencies?package_manager=maven
GET /projects/:id/dependencies?package_manager=yarn,bundler
```

| Attribute     | Type           | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------- | -------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`          | integer/string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths).                                                            |
| `package_manager` | string array   | no       | Returns dependencies belonging to specified package manager. Valid values: `bundler`, `composer`, `conan`, `go`, `gradle`, `maven`, `npm`, `nuget`, `pip`, `pipenv`, `pnpm`, `yarn`, `sbt`, or `setuptools`. |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/4/dependencies"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "rails",
    "version": "5.0.1",
    "package_manager": "bundler",
    "dependency_file_path": "Gemfile.lock",
    "vulnerabilities": [
      {
        "name": "DDoS",
        "severity": "unknown",
        "id": 144827,
        "url": "https://gitlab.example.com/group/project/-/security/vulnerabilities/144827"
      }
    ],
    "licenses": [
      {
        "name": "MIT",
        "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "name": "hanami",
    "version": "1.3.1",
    "package_manager": "bundler",
    "dependency_file_path": "Gemfile.lock",
    "vulnerabilities": [],
    "licenses": [
      {
        "name": "MIT",
        "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

## Dependencies pagination

By default, `GET` requests return 20 results at a time because the API results
are paginated.

Read more on [pagination](rest/_index.md#pagination).
