doc/api/merge_trains.md, before:

---
stage: Verify
group: Pipeline Execution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Merge Trains API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Every API call for [merge train](../ci/pipelines/merge_trains.md) must be authenticated with at least the Developer [role](../user/permissions.md).

If a user is not a member of a project and the project is private, a `GET` request on that project returns a `404` status code.

If Merge Trains is not available for the project, a `403` status code is returned.

## Merge Trains API pagination

By default, `GET` requests return 20 results at a time because the API results
are paginated.

For more information, see [pagination](rest/_index.md#pagination).

## List Merge Trains for a project

Get all Merge Trains of the requested project:

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains?scope=complete
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`      | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `scope`   | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains filtered by the given scope. Available scopes are `active` (to be merged) and `complete` (have been merged). |
| `sort`    | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains sorted in `asc` or `desc` order. Default: `desc`. |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/merge_trains"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 110,
    "merge_request": {
      "id": 126,
      "iid": 59,
      "project_id": 20,
      "title": "Test MR 1580978354",
      "description": "",
      "state": "merged",
      "created_at": "2020-02-06T08:39:14.883Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:57.038Z",
      "web_url": "http://local.gitlab.test:8181/root/merge-train-race-condition/-/merge_requests/59"
    },
    "user": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Administrator",
      "username": "root",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e64c7d89f26bd1972efa854d13d7dd61?s=80&d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://local.gitlab.test:8181/root"
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "id": 246,
      "sha": "bcc17a8ffd51be1afe45605e714085df28b80b13",
      "ref": "refs/merge-requests/59/train",
      "status": "success",
      "created_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:42.410Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:46.912Z",
      "web_url": "http://local.gitlab.test:8181/root/merge-train-race-condition/pipelines/246"
    },
    "created_at": "2020-02-06T08:39:47.217Z",
    "updated_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:57.720Z",
    "target_branch": "feature-1580973432",
    "status": "merged",
    "merged_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:57.719Z",
    "duration": 70
  }
]
```

## List merge requests in a merge train

Get all merge requests added to a merge train for the requested target branch.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains/:target_branch
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute       | Type           | Required | Description |
|-----------------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`            | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `target_branch` | string         | Yes      | The target branch of the merge train. |
| `scope`         | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains filtered by the given scope. Available scopes are `active` (to be merged) and `complete` (have been merged). |
| `sort`          | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains sorted in `asc` or `desc` order. Default: `desc`. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request GET --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/597/merge_trains/main"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 267,
    "merge_request": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 597,
      "title": "My title 9",
      "description": null,
      "state": "opened",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace18/project21/-/merge_requests/1"
    },
    "user": {
      "id": 933,
      "username": "user12",
      "name": "Sidney Jones31",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/6c8365de387cb3db10ecc7b1880203c4?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/user12"
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 598,
      "sha": "b83d6e391c22777fca1ed3012fce84f633d7fed0",
      "ref": "main",
      "status": "pending",
      "source": "push",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace19/project22/-/pipelines/273"
    },
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "updated_at":"2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "target_branch":"main",
    "status":"idle",
    "merged_at":null,
    "duration":null
  }
]
```

## Get the status of a merge request on a merge train

Get merge train information for the requested merge request.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains/merge_requests/:merge_request_iid
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute           | Type           | Required | Description |
|---------------------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`                | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `merge_request_iid` | integer        | Yes      | The internal ID of the merge request. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request GET --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/597/merge_trains/merge_requests/1"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 267,
  "merge_request": {
    "id": 273,
    "iid": 1,
    "project_id": 597,
    "title": "My title 9",
    "description": null,
    "state": "opened",
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
    "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
    "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace18/project21/-/merge_requests/1"
  },
  "user": {
    "id": 933,
    "username": "user12",
    "name": "Sidney Jones31",
    "state": "active",
    "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/6c8365de387cb3db10ecc7b1880203c4?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
    "web_url": "http://localhost/user12"
  },
  "pipeline": {
    "id": 273,
    "iid": 1,
    "project_id": 598,
    "sha": "b83d6e391c22777fca1ed3012fce84f633d7fed0",
    "ref": "main",
    "status": "pending",
    "source": "push",
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
    "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
    "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace19/project22/-/pipelines/273"
  },
  "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
  "updated_at":"2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
  "target_branch":"main",
  "status":"idle",
  "merged_at":null,
  "duration":null
}
```

## Add a merge request to a merge train

Add a merge request to the merge train targeting the merge request's target branch.

```plaintext
POST /projects/:id/merge_trains/merge_requests/:merge_request_iid
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute                | Type           | Required | Description |
|--------------------------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`                     | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `merge_request_iid`      | integer        | Yes      | The internal ID of the merge request. |
| `sha`                    | string         | No       | If present, the SHA must match the `HEAD` of the source branch, otherwise the merge fails. |
| `squash`                 | boolean        | No       | If true, the commits are squashed into a single commit on merge. |
| `when_pipeline_succeeds` | boolean        | No       | If true, the merge request is added to the merge train when the pipeline succeeds. When false or unspecified, the merge request is added directly to the merge train. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/597/merge_trains/merge_requests/1"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 267,
    "merge_request": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 597,
      "title": "My title 9",
      "description": null,
      "state": "opened",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace18/project21/-/merge_requests/1"
    },
    "user": {
      "id": 933,
      "username": "user12",
      "name": "Sidney Jones31",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/6c8365de387cb3db10ecc7b1880203c4?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/user12"
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 598,
      "sha": "b83d6e391c22777fca1ed3012fce84f633d7fed0",
      "ref": "main",
      "status": "pending",
      "source": "push",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace19/project22/-/pipelines/273"
    },
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "updated_at":"2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "target_branch":"main",
    "status":"idle",
    "merged_at":null,
    "duration":null
  }
]
```

Commit message:

Deprecate merge_when_pipeline_succeeds in favour of auto_merge
MR: gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184732

doc/api/merge_trains.md, after:

---
stage: Verify
group: Pipeline Execution
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Merge Trains API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Every API call for [merge train](../ci/pipelines/merge_trains.md) must be authenticated with at least the Developer [role](../user/permissions.md).

If a user is not a member of a project and the project is private, a `GET` request on that project returns a `404` status code.

If Merge Trains is not available for the project, a `403` status code is returned.

## Merge Trains API pagination

By default, `GET` requests return 20 results at a time because the API results
are paginated.

For more information, see [pagination](rest/_index.md#pagination).

## List Merge Trains for a project

Get all Merge Trains of the requested project:

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains?scope=complete
```

| Attribute | Type           | Required | Description |
|-----------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`      | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `scope`   | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains filtered by the given scope. Available scopes are `active` (to be merged) and `complete` (have been merged). |
| `sort`    | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains sorted in `asc` or `desc` order. Default: `desc`. |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/1/merge_trains"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 110,
    "merge_request": {
      "id": 126,
      "iid": 59,
      "project_id": 20,
      "title": "Test MR 1580978354",
      "description": "",
      "state": "merged",
      "created_at": "2020-02-06T08:39:14.883Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:57.038Z",
      "web_url": "http://local.gitlab.test:8181/root/merge-train-race-condition/-/merge_requests/59"
    },
    "user": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Administrator",
      "username": "root",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/e64c7d89f26bd1972efa854d13d7dd61?s=80&d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://local.gitlab.test:8181/root"
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "id": 246,
      "sha": "bcc17a8ffd51be1afe45605e714085df28b80b13",
      "ref": "refs/merge-requests/59/train",
      "status": "success",
      "created_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:42.410Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:46.912Z",
      "web_url": "http://local.gitlab.test:8181/root/merge-train-race-condition/pipelines/246"
    },
    "created_at": "2020-02-06T08:39:47.217Z",
    "updated_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:57.720Z",
    "target_branch": "feature-1580973432",
    "status": "merged",
    "merged_at": "2020-02-06T08:40:57.719Z",
    "duration": 70
  }
]
```

## List merge requests in a merge train

Get all merge requests added to a merge train for the requested target branch.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains/:target_branch
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute       | Type           | Required | Description |
|-----------------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`            | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `target_branch` | string         | Yes      | The target branch of the merge train. |
| `scope`         | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains filtered by the given scope. Available scopes are `active` (to be merged) and `complete` (have been merged). |
| `sort`          | string         | No       | Return Merge Trains sorted in `asc` or `desc` order. Default: `desc`. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request GET --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/597/merge_trains/main"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 267,
    "merge_request": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 597,
      "title": "My title 9",
      "description": null,
      "state": "opened",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace18/project21/-/merge_requests/1"
    },
    "user": {
      "id": 933,
      "username": "user12",
      "name": "Sidney Jones31",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/6c8365de387cb3db10ecc7b1880203c4?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/user12"
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 598,
      "sha": "b83d6e391c22777fca1ed3012fce84f633d7fed0",
      "ref": "main",
      "status": "pending",
      "source": "push",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace19/project22/-/pipelines/273"
    },
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "updated_at":"2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "target_branch":"main",
    "status":"idle",
    "merged_at":null,
    "duration":null
  }
]
```

## Get the status of a merge request on a merge train

Get merge train information for the requested merge request.

```plaintext
GET /projects/:id/merge_trains/merge_requests/:merge_request_iid
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute           | Type           | Required | Description |
|---------------------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`                | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `merge_request_iid` | integer        | Yes      | The internal ID of the merge request. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request GET --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/597/merge_trains/merge_requests/1"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 267,
  "merge_request": {
    "id": 273,
    "iid": 1,
    "project_id": 597,
    "title": "My title 9",
    "description": null,
    "state": "opened",
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
    "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
    "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace18/project21/-/merge_requests/1"
  },
  "user": {
    "id": 933,
    "username": "user12",
    "name": "Sidney Jones31",
    "state": "active",
    "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/6c8365de387cb3db10ecc7b1880203c4?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
    "web_url": "http://localhost/user12"
  },
  "pipeline": {
    "id": 273,
    "iid": 1,
    "project_id": 598,
    "sha": "b83d6e391c22777fca1ed3012fce84f633d7fed0",
    "ref": "main",
    "status": "pending",
    "source": "push",
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
    "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
    "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace19/project22/-/pipelines/273"
  },
  "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
  "updated_at":"2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
  "target_branch":"main",
  "status":"idle",
  "merged_at":null,
  "duration":null
}
```

## Add a merge request to a merge train

Add a merge request to the merge train targeting the merge request's target branch.

```plaintext
POST /projects/:id/merge_trains/merge_requests/:merge_request_iid
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute                | Type           | Required | Description |
|--------------------------|----------------|----------|-------------|
| `id`                     | integer/string | Yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the project](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths). |
| `merge_request_iid`      | integer        | Yes      | The internal ID of the merge request. |
| `auto_merge`             | boolean        | No       | If true, the merge request is added to the merge train when the checks pass. When false or unspecified, the merge request is added directly to the merge train. |
| `sha`                    | string         | No       | If present, the SHA must match the `HEAD` of the source branch, otherwise the merge fails. |
| `squash`                 | boolean        | No       | If true, the commits are squashed into a single commit on merge. |
| `when_pipeline_succeeds` | boolean        | No       | [Deprecated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/521290) in GitLab 17.11. Use `auto_merge` instead. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/597/merge_trains/merge_requests/1"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 267,
    "merge_request": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 597,
      "title": "My title 9",
      "description": null,
      "state": "opened",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:05.725Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace18/project21/-/merge_requests/1"
    },
    "user": {
      "id": 933,
      "username": "user12",
      "name": "Sidney Jones31",
      "state": "active",
      "avatar_url": "https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/6c8365de387cb3db10ecc7b1880203c4?s=80\u0026d=identicon",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/user12"
    },
    "pipeline": {
      "id": 273,
      "iid": 1,
      "project_id": 598,
      "sha": "b83d6e391c22777fca1ed3012fce84f633d7fed0",
      "ref": "main",
      "status": "pending",
      "source": "push",
      "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.231Z",
      "web_url": "http://localhost/namespace19/project22/-/pipelines/273"
    },
    "created_at": "2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "updated_at":"2022-10-31T19:06:06.237Z",
    "target_branch":"main",
    "status":"idle",
    "merged_at":null,
    "duration":null
  }
]
```
