doc/api/vulnerability_archive_exports.md, before:

---
stage: Security Risk Management
group: Security Infrastructure
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Vulnerability archive export API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- Status: Beta

{{< /details >}}

Every API call to vulnerability archive exports must be [authenticated](rest/authentication.md).

## Export archived vulnerabilities for a project

Creates a new export for a project.

If an authenticated user doesn't have permission to
[read vulnerabilities](../user/permissions.md#project-members-permissions),
this request returns a `403 Forbidden` status code.

```plaintext
POST /security/projects/:id/vulnerability_archive_exports
```

| Attribute       | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                               |
|-----------------|-------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`            | integer or string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths) of the project that the authenticated user is a member of.  |
| `start_date` | date              | yes      | Date in `dd/mm/yyyy` format. Vulnerabilities archived on or after this date are included in the export.               |
| `end_date`      | date              | yes      | Date in `dd/mm/yyyy` format. Vulnerabilities archived on or before this date are included in the export.              |
| `export_format` | string            | no       | Format of the export. The default and only valid value is `csv`.                                                          |

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/projects/1/vulnerability_archive_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted after 1 hour.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Get single vulnerability archive export

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_archive_exports/:id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability archive export's ID |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2"
```

If the vulnerability export isn't finished, the response is `202 Accepted`.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "running",
  "started_at": "2020-03-30T09:38:24Z",
  "finished_at": null,
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Download a vulnerability archive export

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_archive_exports/:id/download
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability export's ID |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2/download"
```

The response is `404 Not Found` if the vulnerability export is not finished yet or was not found.

Example response:

```plaintext
Group Name,Project Name,Tool,Scanner Name,Status,Vulnerability,Details,Additional Info,Severity,CVE,CWE,Other Identifiers,Detected At,Location,Activity,Comments,Full Path,CVSS Vectors,Dismissal Reason
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,resolved,CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,"musl libc through 1.1.23 has an x87 floating-point stack adjustment imbalance, related to the math/i386/ directory. In some cases, use of this library could introduce out-of-bounds writes that are not present in an application's source code.",CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,critical,CVE-2019-14697,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl-utils""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"2022-10-07 13:41:08 UTC|root|resolved|changed vulnerability status to resolved",group/project/1,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,"SQLite 3.30.1 mishandles pExpr->y.pTab, as demonstrated by the TK_COLUMN case in sqlite3ExprCodeTarget in expr.c.",CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,medium,CVE-2019-19242,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""sqlite-libs""}, ""version""=>""3.26.0-r3""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/2,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,"In musl libc through 1.2.1, wcsnrtombs mishandles particular combinations of destination buffer size and source character limit, as demonstrated by an invalid write access (buffer overflow).",CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,medium,CVE-2020-28928,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/3,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,Carefully crafted requests can cause shell escape sequences to be written to the terminal via Rack's Lint middleware and CommonLogger middleware. These escape sequences can be leveraged to possibly execute commands in the victim's terminal.,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177,,Gemnasium-60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177; GHSA-wq4h-7r42-5hrr,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/4,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,"Carefully crafted multipart POST requests can cause Rack's multipart parser to take much longer than expected, leading to a possible denial of service vulnerability. Impacted code will use Rack's multipart parser to parse multipart posts.",Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c,,Gemnasium-20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c; GHSA-hxqx-xwvh-44m2,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/5,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Brakeman,detected,Possible SQL injection,,Possible SQL injection,medium,e52f23a259cd489168b4313317ac94a3f13bffde57b9635171c1a44a9f329e9a,,"""Brakeman Warning Code 0""",2022-10-13 15:16:36 UTC,"{""file""=>""main.rb"", ""class""=>""User"", ""method""=>""index"", ""start_line""=>3}",false,"",group/project/6,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Semgrep,dismissed,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command ('SQL Injection'),"SQL Injection is a critical vulnerability that can lead to data or system compromise...",,critical,,CWE-89,SCS0002,2023-12-28 10:48:34 UTC,"{""file""=>""WebGoat/App_Code/DB/SqliteDbProvider.cs"", ""start_line""=>274}",false,"2023-12-28 10:51:32 UTC|root|Dismissed|""changed vulnerability status to Dismissed: Not Applicable and the following comment: ""dismiss 5""",gitlab-org/defend/579,,Not applicable,
```

Commit message:

Add descriptions to export status and download endpoints

doc/api/vulnerability_archive_exports.md, after:

---
stage: Security Risk Management
group: Security Infrastructure
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Vulnerability archive export API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- Status: Beta

{{< /details >}}

Every API call to vulnerability archive exports must be [authenticated](rest/authentication.md).

## Export archived vulnerabilities for a project

Creates a new export for a project.

If an authenticated user doesn't have permission to
[read vulnerabilities](../user/permissions.md#project-members-permissions),
this request returns a `403 Forbidden` status code.

Exports are retained for 1 month after they are created.

```plaintext
POST /security/projects/:id/vulnerability_archive_exports
```

| Attribute       | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                               |
|-----------------|-------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`            | integer or string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths) of the project that the authenticated user is a member of.  |
| `start_date`    | string            | yes      | Date in `dd/mm/yyyy` format. Vulnerabilities that were archived on or after this date will be included in the export.     |
| `end_date`      | string            | yes      | Date in `dd/mm/yyyy` format. Vulnerabilities that were archived on or before this date will be included in the export.    |
| `export_format` | string            | no       | Format of the export. The default and only valid value is `csv`.                                                          |

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/projects/1/vulnerability_archive_exports"
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Get single vulnerability archive export

Get the attributes for an existing export.
This endpoint can be used to poll the export status until it is finished.
Clients should use the `Poll-Interval` response header to determine how long
to wait before sending the next poll.
The `Poll-Interval` is a number representing the time in milliseconds.

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_archive_exports/:id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability archive export's ID |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2"
```

If the vulnerability export isn't finished, the response is `202 Accepted`.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "running",
  "started_at": "2020-03-30T09:38:24Z",
  "finished_at": null,
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Download a vulnerability archive export

Download the export file for a finished export.
This should be done after [verifying](#get-single-vulnerability-archive-export) the export status.

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_archive_exports/:id/download
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability export's ID |

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" -o export.csv "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_archive_exports/2/download"
```

If the vulnerability export is not finished yet or was not found, the response is `404 Not Found`.

Example response:

```plaintext
Group Name,Project Name,Tool,Scanner Name,Status,Vulnerability,Details,Additional Info,Severity,CVE,CWE,Other Identifiers,Detected At,Location,Activity,Comments,Full Path,CVSS Vectors,Dismissal Reason
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,resolved,CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,"musl libc through 1.1.23 has an x87 floating-point stack adjustment imbalance, related to the math/i386/ directory. In some cases, use of this library could introduce out-of-bounds writes that are not present in an application's source code.",CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,critical,CVE-2019-14697,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl-utils""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"2022-10-07 13:41:08 UTC|root|resolved|changed vulnerability status to resolved",group/project/1,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,"SQLite 3.30.1 mishandles pExpr->y.pTab, as demonstrated by the TK_COLUMN case in sqlite3ExprCodeTarget in expr.c.",CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,medium,CVE-2019-19242,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""sqlite-libs""}, ""version""=>""3.26.0-r3""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/2,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,"In musl libc through 1.2.1, wcsnrtombs mishandles particular combinations of destination buffer size and source character limit, as demonstrated by an invalid write access (buffer overflow).",CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,medium,CVE-2020-28928,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/3,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,Carefully crafted requests can cause shell escape sequences to be written to the terminal via Rack's Lint middleware and CommonLogger middleware. These escape sequences can be leveraged to possibly execute commands in the victim's terminal.,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177,,Gemnasium-60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177; GHSA-wq4h-7r42-5hrr,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/4,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,"Carefully crafted multipart POST requests can cause Rack's multipart parser to take much longer than expected, leading to a possible denial of service vulnerability. Impacted code will use Rack's multipart parser to parse multipart posts.",Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c,,Gemnasium-20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c; GHSA-hxqx-xwvh-44m2,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/5,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Brakeman,detected,Possible SQL injection,,Possible SQL injection,medium,e52f23a259cd489168b4313317ac94a3f13bffde57b9635171c1a44a9f329e9a,,"""Brakeman Warning Code 0""",2022-10-13 15:16:36 UTC,"{""file""=>""main.rb"", ""class""=>""User"", ""method""=>""index"", ""start_line""=>3}",false,"",group/project/6,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Semgrep,dismissed,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command ('SQL Injection'),"SQL Injection is a critical vulnerability that can lead to data or system compromise...",,critical,,CWE-89,SCS0002,2023-12-28 10:48:34 UTC,"{""file""=>""WebGoat/App_Code/DB/SqliteDbProvider.cs"", ""start_line""=>274}",false,"2023-12-28 10:51:32 UTC|root|Dismissed|""changed vulnerability status to Dismissed: Not Applicable and the following comment: ""dismiss 5""",gitlab-org/defend/579,,Not applicable,
```
