doc/api/vulnerability_exports.md, before:

---
stage: Security Risk Management
group: Security Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Vulnerability export API
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Every API call to vulnerability exports must be [authenticated](rest/authentication.md).

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/524058) PDF exports in GitLab 18.1 [with a flag](../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `vulnerabilities_pdf_export`. Disabled by default.

{{< /history >}}

## Create a project-level vulnerability export

Creates a new vulnerability export for a project.

If an authenticated user doesn't have permission to
[create a new vulnerability](../user/permissions.md#project-members-permissions),
this request returns a `403 Forbidden` status code.

Each user can only create one vulnerability export at a time for a specific project.
If you request an export while your previous request is still in progress, the result is a `429 Too Many Requests` error.

Vulnerability exports can be only accessed by the export's author.

```plaintext
POST /security/projects/:id/vulnerability_exports
```

| Attribute       | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------------|-------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`            | integer or string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths) of the project that the authenticated user is a member of                                            |
| `send_email`    | boolean           | no       | When set to `true`, sends an email notification to the user who requested the export when the export completes.                                                    |
| `export_format` | string            | no       | Values: `csv`,`pdf`. Default is `csv`. A `pdf` report requires the `vulnerabilities_pdf_export` feature flag.                                                            |
| `report_data`   | object            | no       | A hash of report components mapped to frontend data assets to use in the export. For example: `{ project_vulnerabilities_history: '<svg>some report asset</svg>' }` |

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of PDF exports is controlled by a feature flag. For more information, see
the history.

{{< /alert >}}

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/projects/1/vulnerability_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted at the time specified in the `expires_at` field.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "group_id": null,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "send_email": false,
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Create a group-level vulnerability export

Creates a new vulnerability export for a group.

If an authenticated user doesn't have permission to
[create a new vulnerability](../user/permissions.md#group-members-permissions),
this request returns a `403 Forbidden` status code.

Each user can only create one vulnerability export at a time for a specific group.
If you request an export while your previous request is still in progress, the result is a `429 Too Many Requests`
error.

Vulnerability exports can be only accessed by the export's author.

```plaintext
POST /security/groups/:id/vulnerability_exports
```

| Attribute       | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------------|-------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`            | integer or string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths) of the group which the authenticated user is a member of                                             |
| `export_format` | string            | no       | Values: `csv`,`pdf`. Default is `csv`. A PDF report requires the `vulnerabilities_pdf_export` feature flag.                                                            |
| `report_data`   | object            | no       | A hash of report components mapped to frontend data assets to use in the export. For example: `{ project_vulnerabilities_history: '<svg>some report asset</svg>' }` |

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of PDF exports is controlled by a feature flag. For more information, see
the history.

{{< /alert >}}

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/groups/1/vulnerability_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted at the time specified in the `expires_at` field.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": null,
  "group_id": 1,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Create an instance-level vulnerability export

Creates a new vulnerability export for the projects of the user selected in the Security Dashboard.

```plaintext
POST /security/vulnerability_exports
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted at the time specified in the `expires_at` field.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": null,
  "group_id": null,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Get single vulnerability export

Gets a single vulnerability export.

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_exports/:id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability export's ID |

```shell
curl --request GET \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2"
```

If the vulnerability export isn't finished, the response is `202 Accepted`.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "group_id": null,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "finished",
  "started_at": "2020-03-30T09:36:54.469Z",
  "finished_at": "2020-03-30T09:36:55.008Z",
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Download vulnerability export

Downloads a single vulnerability export.

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_exports/:id/download
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability export's ID |

```shell
curl --request GET \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
```

The response is `404 Not Found` if the vulnerability export is not finished yet or was not found.

Example response:

```plaintext
Group Name,Project Name,Tool,Scanner Name,Status,Vulnerability,Details,Additional Info,Severity,CVE,CWE,Other Identifiers,Detected At,Location,Activity,Comments,Full Path,CVSS Vectors,Dismissal Reason
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,resolved,CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,"musl libc through 1.1.23 has an x87 floating-point stack adjustment imbalance, related to the math/i386/ directory. In some cases, use of this library could introduce out-of-bounds writes that are not present in an application's source code.",CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,critical,CVE-2019-14697,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl-utils""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"2022-10-07 13:41:08 UTC|root|resolved|changed vulnerability status to resolved",group/project/1,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,"SQLite 3.30.1 mishandles pExpr->y.pTab, as demonstrated by the TK_COLUMN case in sqlite3ExprCodeTarget in expr.c.",CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,medium,CVE-2019-19242,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""sqlite-libs""}, ""version""=>""3.26.0-r3""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/2,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,"In musl libc through 1.2.1, wcsnrtombs mishandles particular combinations of destination buffer size and source character limit, as demonstrated by an invalid write access (buffer overflow).",CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,medium,CVE-2020-28928,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/3,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,Carefully crafted requests can cause shell escape sequences to be written to the terminal via Rack's Lint middleware and CommonLogger middleware. These escape sequences can be leveraged to possibly execute commands in the victim's terminal.,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177,,Gemnasium-60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177; GHSA-wq4h-7r42-5hrr,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/4,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,"Carefully crafted multipart POST requests can cause Rack's multipart parser to take much longer than expected, leading to a possible denial of service vulnerability. Impacted code will use Rack's multipart parser to parse multipart posts.",Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c,,Gemnasium-20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c; GHSA-hxqx-xwvh-44m2,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/5,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Brakeman,detected,Possible SQL injection,,Possible SQL injection,medium,e52f23a259cd489168b4313317ac94a3f13bffde57b9635171c1a44a9f329e9a,,"""Brakeman Warning Code 0""",2022-10-13 15:16:36 UTC,"{""file""=>""main.rb"", ""class""=>""User"", ""method""=>""index"", ""start_line""=>3}",false,"",group/project/6,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Semgrep,dismissed,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command ('SQL Injection'),"SQL Injection is a critical vulnerability that can lead to data or system compromise...",,critical,,CWE-89,SCS0002,2023-12-28 10:48:34 UTC,"{""file""=>""WebGoat/App_Code/DB/SqliteDbProvider.cs"", ""start_line""=>274}",false,"2023-12-28 10:51:32 UTC|root|Dismissed|""changed vulnerability status to Dismissed: Not Applicable and the following comment: ""dismiss 5""",gitlab-org/defend/579,,Not applicable,
```

Commit message:

Added description metadata to Edit vulnerability_exports.md

doc/api/vulnerability_exports.md, after:

---
stage: Security Risk Management
group: Security Insights
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Vulnerability export API
description: Export vulnerability data for a project, group, or instance in CSV or PDF format.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

Every API call to vulnerability exports must be [authenticated](rest/authentication.md).

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/524058) PDF exports in GitLab 18.1 [with a flag](../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `vulnerabilities_pdf_export`. Disabled by default.

{{< /history >}}

## Create a project-level vulnerability export

Creates a new vulnerability export for a project.

If an authenticated user doesn't have permission to
[create a new vulnerability](../user/permissions.md#project-members-permissions),
this request returns a `403 Forbidden` status code.

Each user can only create one vulnerability export at a time for a specific project.
If you request an export while your previous request is still in progress, the result is a `429 Too Many Requests` error.

Vulnerability exports can be only accessed by the export's author.

```plaintext
POST /security/projects/:id/vulnerability_exports
```

| Attribute       | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------------|-------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`            | integer or string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths) of the project that the authenticated user is a member of                                            |
| `send_email`    | boolean           | no       | When set to `true`, sends an email notification to the user who requested the export when the export completes.                                                    |
| `export_format` | string            | no       | Values: `csv`,`pdf`. Default is `csv`. A `pdf` report requires the `vulnerabilities_pdf_export` feature flag.                                                            |
| `report_data`   | object            | no       | A hash of report components mapped to frontend data assets to use in the export. For example: `{ project_vulnerabilities_history: '<svg>some report asset</svg>' }` |

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of PDF exports is controlled by a feature flag. For more information, see
the history.

{{< /alert >}}

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/projects/1/vulnerability_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted at the time specified in the `expires_at` field.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "group_id": null,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "send_email": false,
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Create a group-level vulnerability export

Creates a new vulnerability export for a group.

If an authenticated user doesn't have permission to
[create a new vulnerability](../user/permissions.md#group-members-permissions),
this request returns a `403 Forbidden` status code.

Each user can only create one vulnerability export at a time for a specific group.
If you request an export while your previous request is still in progress, the result is a `429 Too Many Requests`
error.

Vulnerability exports can be only accessed by the export's author.

```plaintext
POST /security/groups/:id/vulnerability_exports
```

| Attribute       | Type              | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------------|-------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `id`            | integer or string | yes      | The ID or [URL-encoded path](rest/_index.md#namespaced-paths) of the group which the authenticated user is a member of                                             |
| `export_format` | string            | no       | Values: `csv`,`pdf`. Default is `csv`. A PDF report requires the `vulnerabilities_pdf_export` feature flag.                                                            |
| `report_data`   | object            | no       | A hash of report components mapped to frontend data assets to use in the export. For example: `{ project_vulnerabilities_history: '<svg>some report asset</svg>' }` |

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of PDF exports is controlled by a feature flag. For more information, see
the history.

{{< /alert >}}

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/groups/1/vulnerability_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted at the time specified in the `expires_at` field.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": null,
  "group_id": 1,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Create an instance-level vulnerability export

Creates a new vulnerability export for the projects of the user selected in the Security Dashboard.

```plaintext
POST /security/vulnerability_exports
```

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports"
```

The created vulnerability export is automatically deleted at the time specified in the `expires_at` field.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": null,
  "group_id": null,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "created",
  "started_at": null,
  "finished_at": null,
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Get single vulnerability export

Gets a single vulnerability export.

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_exports/:id
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability export's ID |

```shell
curl --request GET \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2"
```

If the vulnerability export isn't finished, the response is `202 Accepted`.

Example response:

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "created_at": "2020-03-30T09:35:38.746Z",
  "project_id": 1,
  "group_id": null,
  "format": "csv",
  "status": "finished",
  "started_at": "2020-03-30T09:36:54.469Z",
  "finished_at": "2020-03-30T09:36:55.008Z",
  "expires_at": "2020-04-06T09:35:38.746Z",
  "_links": {
    "self": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2",
    "download": "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
  }
}
```

## Download vulnerability export

Downloads a single vulnerability export.

```plaintext
GET /security/vulnerability_exports/:id/download
```

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer or string | yes | The vulnerability export's ID |

```shell
curl --request GET \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/security/vulnerability_exports/2/download"
```

The response is `404 Not Found` if the vulnerability export is not finished yet or was not found.

Example response:

```plaintext
Group Name,Project Name,Tool,Scanner Name,Status,Vulnerability,Details,Additional Info,Severity,CVE,CWE,Other Identifiers,Detected At,Location,Activity,Comments,Full Path,CVSS Vectors,Dismissal Reason
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,resolved,CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,"musl libc through 1.1.23 has an x87 floating-point stack adjustment imbalance, related to the math/i386/ directory. In some cases, use of this library could introduce out-of-bounds writes that are not present in an application's source code.",CVE-2019-14697 in musl-utils-1.1.20-r4,critical,CVE-2019-14697,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl-utils""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"2022-10-07 13:41:08 UTC|root|resolved|changed vulnerability status to resolved",group/project/1,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,"SQLite 3.30.1 mishandles pExpr->y.pTab, as demonstrated by the TK_COLUMN case in sqlite3ExprCodeTarget in expr.c.",CVE-2019-19242 in sqlite-libs-3.26.0-r3,medium,CVE-2019-19242,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""sqlite-libs""}, ""version""=>""3.26.0-r3""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/2,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,container_scanning,Trivy,detected,CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,"In musl libc through 1.2.1, wcsnrtombs mishandles particular combinations of destination buffer size and source character limit, as demonstrated by an invalid write access (buffer overflow).",CVE-2020-28928 in musl-1.1.20-r4,medium,CVE-2020-28928,,"",2022-10-07 13:34:41 UTC,"{""image""=>""python:3.4-alpine"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""musl""}, ""version""=>""1.1.20-r4""}, ""operating_system""=>""alpine 3.9.2""}",true,"",group/project/3,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,Carefully crafted requests can cause shell escape sequences to be written to the terminal via Rack's Lint middleware and CommonLogger middleware. These escape sequences can be leveraged to possibly execute commands in the victim's terminal.,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177,,Gemnasium-60b5a27f-4e4d-4ab4-8ae7-74b4b212e177; GHSA-wq4h-7r42-5hrr,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/4,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,dependency_scanning,Gemnasium,detected,Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,"Carefully crafted multipart POST requests can cause Rack's multipart parser to take much longer than expected, leading to a possible denial of service vulnerability. Impacted code will use Rack's multipart parser to parse multipart posts.",Denial of Service Vulnerability in Rack Multipart Parsing in rack,unknown,Gemfile.lock:rack:gemnasium:20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c,,Gemnasium-20daa17a-47b5-4f79-80c2-cd8f2db9805c; GHSA-hxqx-xwvh-44m2,2022-10-14 13:16:00 UTC,"{""file""=>""Gemfile.lock"", ""dependency""=>{""package""=>{""name""=>""rack""}, ""version""=>""2.2.3""}}",false,group/project/5,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Brakeman,detected,Possible SQL injection,,Possible SQL injection,medium,e52f23a259cd489168b4313317ac94a3f13bffde57b9635171c1a44a9f329e9a,,"""Brakeman Warning Code 0""",2022-10-13 15:16:36 UTC,"{""file""=>""main.rb"", ""class""=>""User"", ""method""=>""index"", ""start_line""=>3}",false,"",group/project/6,,,
Gitlab.org,Defend,sast,Semgrep,dismissed,Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an SQL Command ('SQL Injection'),"SQL Injection is a critical vulnerability that can lead to data or system compromise...",,critical,,CWE-89,SCS0002,2023-12-28 10:48:34 UTC,"{""file""=>""WebGoat/App_Code/DB/SqliteDbProvider.cs"", ""start_line""=>274}",false,"2023-12-28 10:51:32 UTC|root|Dismissed|""changed vulnerability status to Dismissed: Not Applicable and the following comment: ""dismiss 5""",gitlab-org/defend/579,,Not applicable,
```
