doc/user/application_security/policies/scheduled_pipeline_execution_policies.md, before:

---
stage: Security Risk Management
group: Security Policies
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Scheduled pipeline execution policies
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/14147) as an experiment in GitLab 18.0 with a flag named `scheduled_pipeline_execution_policy_type` defined in the `policy.yml` file.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history. This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

{{< /alert >}}

Pipeline execution policies enforce custom CI/CD jobs in your projects' pipelines. With scheduled pipeline execution policies, you can extend this enforcement to run the CI/CD job on a regular cadence (daily, weekly, or monthly), ensuring that compliance scripts, security scans, or other custom CI/CD job are executed even when there are no new commits.

## Scheduling your pipeline execution policies

Unlike regular pipeline execution policies that inject or override jobs in existing pipelines, scheduled policies create new pipelines that run independently on the schedule you define.

Common use cases include:

- Enforce security scans on a regular cadence to meet compliance requirements.
- Check project configurations periodically.
- Run dependency scans on inactive repositories to detect newly discovered vulnerabilities.
- Execute compliance reporting scripts on a schedule.

## Enable scheduled pipeline execution policies

Scheduled pipeline execution policies are available as an experimental feature. To enable this feature in your environment, enable the `pipeline_execution_schedule_policy` experiment in the security policy configuration. The `.gitlab/security-policies/policy.yml` YAML configuration file is stored in your Security Policy Project:

```yaml
experiments:
  pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
    enabled: true
```

{{< alert type="note" >}}

This feature is experimental and may change in future releases. You should test it thoroughly in a non-production environment only. You should not use this feature in production environments as it may be unstable.

{{< /alert >}}

## Configure schedule pipeline execution policies

To configure a scheduled pipeline execution policy, add additional configuration fields to the `pipeline_execution_schedule_policy` section of your security policy project's `.gitlab/security-policies/policy.yml` file:

```yaml
pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
- name: Scheduled Pipeline Execution Policy
  description: ''
  enabled: true
  content:
    include:
    - project: your-group/your-project
      file: security-scan.yml
  schedules:
  - type: daily
    start_time: '10:00'
    time_window:
      value: 600
      distribution: random
```

### Schedule configuration schema

The `schedules` section allows you to configure when security policy jobs run automatically. You can create daily, weekly, or monthly schedules with specific execution times and distribution windows.

### Schedules configuration options

The `schedules` section supports the following options:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `type` | Schedule type: `daily`, `weekly`, or `monthly` |
| `start_time` | Time to start the schedule in 24-hour format (HH:MM) |
| `time_window` | Time window in which to distribute the pipeline executions |
| `time_window.value` | Duration in seconds (minimum: 600, maximum: 2629746) |
| `time_window.distribution` | Distribution method (currently, only `random` is supported) |
| `timezone` | IANA timezone identifier (defaults to UTC if not specified) |
| `branches` | Optional array with names of the branches to schedule pipelines on. If `branches` is specified, pipelines run only on the specified branches and only if they exist in the project. If not specified, pipelines run only on the default branch. You can provide a maximum of five unique branch names per schedule. |
| `days` | Use with weekly schedules only: Array of days when the schedule runs (for example, `["Monday", "Friday"]`) |
| `days_of_month` | Use with monthly schedules only: Array of dates when the schedule runs (for example, `[1, 15]`, can include values from 1 to 31) |
| `snooze` | Optional configuration to temporarily pause the schedule |
| `snooze.until` | ISO8601 date and time when the schedule resumes after the snooze (format: `2025-06-13T20:20:00+00:00`) |
| `snooze.reason` | Optional documentation explaining why the schedule is snoozed |

### Schedule examples

Use daily, weekly, or monthly schedules.

#### Daily schedule example

```yaml
schedules:
  - type: daily
    start_time: "01:00"
    time_window:
      value: 3600  # 1 hour window
      distribution: random
    timezone: "America/New_York"
    branches:
      - main
      - develop
      - staging
```

#### Weekly schedule example

```yaml
schedules:
  - type: weekly
    days:
      - Monday
      - Wednesday
      - Friday
    start_time: "04:30"
    time_window:
      value: 7200  # 2 hour window
      distribution: random
    timezone: "Europe/Berlin"
```

#### Monthly schedule example

```yaml
schedules:
  - type: monthly
    days_of_month:
      - 1
      - 15
    start_time: "02:15"
    time_window:
      value: 14400  # 4 hour window
      distribution: random
    timezone: "Asia/Tokyo"
```

### Time window distribution

To prevent overwhelming your CI/CD infrastructure when applying policies to multiple projects, scheduled pipeline execution policies distribute the creation of the pipelines across a time window with some common rules:

- All pipelines are scheduled at `random`. Pipelines are randomly distributed during the specified time window.
- The minimum time window is 10 minutes (600 seconds), and the maximum is approximately 1 month (2,629,746 seconds).
- For monthly schedules, if you specify dates that don't exist in certain months (like 31 for February), those runs are skipped.
- A scheduled policy can only have one schedule configuration at a time.

## Snooze scheduled pipeline execution policies

You can temporarily pause scheduled pipeline execution policies using the snooze feature. Use the snooze feature during maintenance windows, holidays, or when you need to prevent scheduled pipelines from running for a specific time period.

### How snoozing works

When you snooze a scheduled pipeline execution policy:

- No new scheduled pipelines are created during the snooze period.
- Pipelines that were created before the snooze continue to execute.
- The policy remains enabled but in a snoozed state.
- After the snooze period expires, scheduled pipeline execution resumes automatically.

### Configuring snooze

To snooze a scheduled pipeline execution policy, add a `snooze` section to the schedule configuration:

```yaml
pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
- name: Weekly Security Scan
  description: 'Run security scans every week'
  enabled: true
  content:
    include:
    - project: your-group/your-project
      file: security-scan.yml
  schedules:
  - type: weekly
    start_time: '02:00'
    time_window:
      value: 3600
      distribution: random
    timezone: UTC
    days:
      - Monday
    snooze:
      until: "2025-06-26T16:27:00+00:00"  # ISO8601 format
      reason: "Critical production deployment"
```

The `snooze.until` parameter specifies when the snooze period ends using the ISO8601 format: `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss+00:00` where:

- `YYYY-MM-DD`: Year, month, and day
- `T`: Separator between date and time
- `hh:mm:ss`: Hours, minutes, and seconds in 24-hour format
- `+00:00`: Time zone offset from UTC (or Z for UTC)

For example, `2025-06-26T16:27:00+00:00` represents June 26, 2025, at 4:27 PM UTC.

### Removing a snooze

To remove a snooze before its expiration time, remove the `snooze` section from the policy configuration or set a date in the past for the `until` value.

## Schedule pipelines for specific branches

By default, schedules run on the default branch only. Scheduled pipeline execution policies support branch filtering, which allows you to schedule pipelines for additional branches. Use the `branches` property to perform regular scans or checks on other important branches in your project.

When you configure the `branches` property in your schedule:

- If you don't specify any branches, the scheduled pipeline runs only on the default branch.
- If you specify branches, the policy schedules pipelines for each specified branch that actually exists in the project.
- You can specify a maximum of five unique branch names per schedule.
- You must specify each branch name in full. Wildcard matching is not supported.

### Branch filtering example

```yaml
pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
- name: Scan Multiple Branches
  description: 'Run security scans on main, staging and develop branches'
  enabled: true
  content:
    include:
    - project: your-group/your-project
      file: security-scan.yml
  schedules:
  - type: weekly
    days:
      - Monday
    start_time: '02:00'
    time_window:
      value: 3600
      distribution: random
    branches:
      - main
      - staging
      - develop
      - feature/new-authentication
```

In this example, if all of the specified branches exist in the project, the policy creates four separate pipelines (one for each branch).

## Requirements

To use scheduled pipeline execution policies:

1. Store your CI/CD configuration in your security policy project.
1. In your security policy project's **Settings** > **General** > **Visibility, project features, permissions** section, enable the **Grant security policy project access to CI/CD configuration** setting.
1. Ensure your CI/CD configuration includes appropriate workflow rules for scheduled pipelines.

The security policy bot is a system account that GitLab automatically creates to handle the execution of security policies. When you enable the appropriate settings, this bot is granted the necessary permissions to access CI/CD configurations and run scheduled pipelines. The permissions are only necessary if the CI/CD configurations is not in a public project.

Note these limitations:

- If no branches are specified, scheduled pipeline execution policies only run on the default branch.
- You can specify up to five unique branch names in the `branches` array.
- Time windows must be at least 10 minutes (600 seconds) to ensure proper distribution of pipelines.
- The maximum number of scheduled pipeline execution policies per security policy project is limited to 1 policy with 1 schedule.
- This feature is experimental and may change in future releases.
- Scheduled pipelines can be delayed if there are insufficient runners available.
- The maximum frequency for schedules is daily.

## Troubleshooting

If your scheduled pipelines are not running as expected, follow these troubleshooting steps:

1. **Verify experimental flag**: Ensure that the `pipeline_execution_schedule_policy: enabled: true` flag is set in the `experiments` section of your `policy.yml` file.
1. **Check policy access**: Verify that your security policy project has access to the CI/CD configuration:
   - Go to the security policy project's **Settings** > **General** > **Visibility, project features, permissions** and ensure the "Pipeline execution policies" setting is enabled.
1. **Validate CI configuration**:
   - Check that the CI/CD configuration file exists at the specified path.
   - Verify the configuration is valid by running a manual pipeline.
   - Ensure the configuration includes appropriate workflow rules for scheduled pipelines.
1. **Verify policy configuration**:
   - Ensure the policy is enabled (`enabled: true`).
   - Verify that the schedule configuration has the correct format and valid values.
   - If you've specified branches, verify that the branches exist in the project.
   - Verify that the time zone setting is correct (if specified).
1. **Review logs and activity**:
   - Check the security policy project's CI/CD pipeline logs for any errors.
1. **Check runner availability**:
   - Ensure that runners are available and configured properly.
   - Verify that runners have the capacity to handle the scheduled jobs.

Commit message:

Update wording for policy access from SPEP

doc/user/application_security/policies/scheduled_pipeline_execution_policies.md, after:

---
stage: Security Risk Management
group: Security Policies
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Scheduled pipeline execution policies
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/14147) as an experiment in GitLab 18.0 with a flag named `scheduled_pipeline_execution_policy_type` defined in the `policy.yml` file.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history. This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

{{< /alert >}}

Pipeline execution policies enforce custom CI/CD jobs in your projects' pipelines. With scheduled pipeline execution policies, you can extend this enforcement to run the CI/CD job on a regular cadence (daily, weekly, or monthly), ensuring that compliance scripts, security scans, or other custom CI/CD job are executed even when there are no new commits.

## Scheduling your pipeline execution policies

Unlike regular pipeline execution policies that inject or override jobs in existing pipelines, scheduled policies create new pipelines that run independently on the schedule you define.

Common use cases include:

- Enforce security scans on a regular cadence to meet compliance requirements.
- Check project configurations periodically.
- Run dependency scans on inactive repositories to detect newly discovered vulnerabilities.
- Execute compliance reporting scripts on a schedule.

## Enable scheduled pipeline execution policies

Scheduled pipeline execution policies are available as an experimental feature. To enable this feature in your environment, enable the `pipeline_execution_schedule_policy` experiment in the security policy configuration. The `.gitlab/security-policies/policy.yml` YAML configuration file is stored in your Security Policy Project:

```yaml
experiments:
  pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
    enabled: true
```

{{< alert type="note" >}}

This feature is experimental and may change in future releases. You should test it thoroughly in a non-production environment only. You should not use this feature in production environments as it may be unstable.

{{< /alert >}}

## Configure schedule pipeline execution policies

To configure a scheduled pipeline execution policy, add additional configuration fields to the `pipeline_execution_schedule_policy` section of your security policy project's `.gitlab/security-policies/policy.yml` file:

```yaml
pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
- name: Scheduled Pipeline Execution Policy
  description: ''
  enabled: true
  content:
    include:
    - project: your-group/your-project
      file: security-scan.yml
  schedules:
  - type: daily
    start_time: '10:00'
    time_window:
      value: 600
      distribution: random
```

### Schedule configuration schema

The `schedules` section allows you to configure when security policy jobs run automatically. You can create daily, weekly, or monthly schedules with specific execution times and distribution windows.

### Schedules configuration options

The `schedules` section supports the following options:

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `type` | Schedule type: `daily`, `weekly`, or `monthly` |
| `start_time` | Time to start the schedule in 24-hour format (HH:MM) |
| `time_window` | Time window in which to distribute the pipeline executions |
| `time_window.value` | Duration in seconds (minimum: 600, maximum: 2629746) |
| `time_window.distribution` | Distribution method (currently, only `random` is supported) |
| `timezone` | IANA timezone identifier (defaults to UTC if not specified) |
| `branches` | Optional array with names of the branches to schedule pipelines on. If `branches` is specified, pipelines run only on the specified branches and only if they exist in the project. If not specified, pipelines run only on the default branch. You can provide a maximum of five unique branch names per schedule. |
| `days` | Use with weekly schedules only: Array of days when the schedule runs (for example, `["Monday", "Friday"]`) |
| `days_of_month` | Use with monthly schedules only: Array of dates when the schedule runs (for example, `[1, 15]`, can include values from 1 to 31) |
| `snooze` | Optional configuration to temporarily pause the schedule |
| `snooze.until` | ISO8601 date and time when the schedule resumes after the snooze (format: `2025-06-13T20:20:00+00:00`) |
| `snooze.reason` | Optional documentation explaining why the schedule is snoozed |

### Schedule examples

Use daily, weekly, or monthly schedules.

#### Daily schedule example

```yaml
schedules:
  - type: daily
    start_time: "01:00"
    time_window:
      value: 3600  # 1 hour window
      distribution: random
    timezone: "America/New_York"
    branches:
      - main
      - develop
      - staging
```

#### Weekly schedule example

```yaml
schedules:
  - type: weekly
    days:
      - Monday
      - Wednesday
      - Friday
    start_time: "04:30"
    time_window:
      value: 7200  # 2 hour window
      distribution: random
    timezone: "Europe/Berlin"
```

#### Monthly schedule example

```yaml
schedules:
  - type: monthly
    days_of_month:
      - 1
      - 15
    start_time: "02:15"
    time_window:
      value: 14400  # 4 hour window
      distribution: random
    timezone: "Asia/Tokyo"
```

### Time window distribution

To prevent overwhelming your CI/CD infrastructure when applying policies to multiple projects, scheduled pipeline execution policies distribute the creation of the pipelines across a time window with some common rules:

- All pipelines are scheduled at `random`. Pipelines are randomly distributed during the specified time window.
- The minimum time window is 10 minutes (600 seconds), and the maximum is approximately 1 month (2,629,746 seconds).
- For monthly schedules, if you specify dates that don't exist in certain months (like 31 for February), those runs are skipped.
- A scheduled policy can only have one schedule configuration at a time.

## Snooze scheduled pipeline execution policies

You can temporarily pause scheduled pipeline execution policies using the snooze feature. Use the snooze feature during maintenance windows, holidays, or when you need to prevent scheduled pipelines from running for a specific time period.

### How snoozing works

When you snooze a scheduled pipeline execution policy:

- No new scheduled pipelines are created during the snooze period.
- Pipelines that were created before the snooze continue to execute.
- The policy remains enabled but in a snoozed state.
- After the snooze period expires, scheduled pipeline execution resumes automatically.

### Configuring snooze

To snooze a scheduled pipeline execution policy, add a `snooze` section to the schedule configuration:

```yaml
pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
- name: Weekly Security Scan
  description: 'Run security scans every week'
  enabled: true
  content:
    include:
    - project: your-group/your-project
      file: security-scan.yml
  schedules:
  - type: weekly
    start_time: '02:00'
    time_window:
      value: 3600
      distribution: random
    timezone: UTC
    days:
      - Monday
    snooze:
      until: "2025-06-26T16:27:00+00:00"  # ISO8601 format
      reason: "Critical production deployment"
```

The `snooze.until` parameter specifies when the snooze period ends using the ISO8601 format: `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss+00:00` where:

- `YYYY-MM-DD`: Year, month, and day
- `T`: Separator between date and time
- `hh:mm:ss`: Hours, minutes, and seconds in 24-hour format
- `+00:00`: Time zone offset from UTC (or Z for UTC)

For example, `2025-06-26T16:27:00+00:00` represents June 26, 2025, at 4:27 PM UTC.

### Removing a snooze

To remove a snooze before its expiration time, remove the `snooze` section from the policy configuration or set a date in the past for the `until` value.

## Schedule pipelines for specific branches

By default, schedules run on the default branch only. Scheduled pipeline execution policies support branch filtering, which allows you to schedule pipelines for additional branches. Use the `branches` property to perform regular scans or checks on other important branches in your project.

When you configure the `branches` property in your schedule:

- If you don't specify any branches, the scheduled pipeline runs only on the default branch.
- If you specify branches, the policy schedules pipelines for each specified branch that actually exists in the project.
- You can specify a maximum of five unique branch names per schedule.
- You must specify each branch name in full. Wildcard matching is not supported.

### Branch filtering example

```yaml
pipeline_execution_schedule_policy:
- name: Scan Multiple Branches
  description: 'Run security scans on main, staging and develop branches'
  enabled: true
  content:
    include:
    - project: your-group/your-project
      file: security-scan.yml
  schedules:
  - type: weekly
    days:
      - Monday
    start_time: '02:00'
    time_window:
      value: 3600
      distribution: random
    branches:
      - main
      - staging
      - develop
      - feature/new-authentication
```

In this example, if all of the specified branches exist in the project, the policy creates four separate pipelines (one for each branch).

## Requirements

To use scheduled pipeline execution policies:

1. Store your CI/CD configuration in your security policy project.
1. In your security policy project's **Settings** > **General** > **Visibility, project features, permissions** section, enable the **Grant security policy project access to CI/CD configuration** setting.
1. Ensure your CI/CD configuration includes appropriate workflow rules for scheduled pipelines.

The security policy bot is a system account that GitLab automatically creates to handle the execution of security policies. When you enable the appropriate settings, this bot is granted the necessary permissions to access CI/CD configurations and run scheduled pipelines. The permissions are only necessary if the CI/CD configurations is not in a public project.

Note these limitations:

- If no branches are specified, scheduled pipeline execution policies only run on the default branch.
- You can specify up to five unique branch names in the `branches` array.
- Time windows must be at least 10 minutes (600 seconds) to ensure proper distribution of pipelines.
- The maximum number of scheduled pipeline execution policies per security policy project is limited to 1 policy with 1 schedule.
- This feature is experimental and may change in future releases.
- Scheduled pipelines can be delayed if there are insufficient runners available.
- The maximum frequency for schedules is daily.

## Troubleshooting

If your scheduled pipelines are not running as expected, follow these troubleshooting steps:

1. **Verify experimental flag**: Ensure that the `pipeline_execution_schedule_policy: enabled: true` flag is set in the `experiments` section of your `policy.yml` file.
1. **Check policy access**: Verify that:
   - The CI/CD configuration file is stored in your security policy project, not linked from another project.
   - The **Pipeline execution policies** setting is enabled in the security policy project (**Settings** > **General** > **Visibility, project features, permissions**).
1. **Validate CI configuration**:
   - Check that the CI/CD configuration file exists at the specified path.
   - Verify the configuration is valid by running a manual pipeline.
   - Ensure the configuration includes appropriate workflow rules for scheduled pipelines.
1. **Verify policy configuration**:
   - Ensure the policy is enabled (`enabled: true`).
   - Verify that the schedule configuration has the correct format and valid values.
   - If you've specified branches, verify that the branches exist in the project.
   - Verify that the time zone setting is correct (if specified).
1. **Review logs and activity**:
   - Check the security policy project's CI/CD pipeline logs for any errors.
1. **Check runner availability**:
   - Ensure that runners are available and configured properly.
   - Verify that runners have the capacity to handle the scheduled jobs.
