doc/user/project/repository/code_suggestions/_index.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Creation
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Code Suggestions helps you write code in GitLab more efficiently by using AI to suggest code as you type.
title: Code Suggestions
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Add-on: GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise, GitLab Duo with Amazon Q
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- LLMs: For code completion, Vertex AI-hosted [`Codestral`](https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/mistralai/model-garden/codestral-2501) and Fireworks AI-hosted [`Codestral`](https://mistral.ai/news/codestral-2501). For code generation, Anthropic [Claude 3.7 Sonnet](https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/anthropic/model-garden/claude-3-7-sonnet).
- LLM for Amazon Q: Amazon Q Developer

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced support for Google Vertex AI Codey APIs](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10562) in GitLab 16.1.
- [Removed support for GitLab native model](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10752) in GitLab 16.2.
- [Introduced support for Code Generation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/415583) in GitLab 16.3.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435271) in GitLab 16.7.
- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/fulfillment/meta/-/issues/2031) to require the GitLab Duo Pro add-on on February 15, 2024. Previously, this feature was included with Premium and Ultimate subscriptions.
- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/fulfillment/meta/-/issues/2031) to require the GitLab Duo Pro or GitLab Duo Enterprise add-on for all supported GitLab versions starting October 17, 2024.
- [Introduced support for Fireworks AI-hosted Qwen2.5 code completion model](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/15850) in GitLab 17.6, with a flag named `fireworks_qwen_code_completion`.
- Removed support for Qwen2.5 code completion model

{{< /history >}}

Use GitLab Duo Code Suggestions to write code more efficiently by using generative AI to suggest code while you're developing.

Before you start using Code Suggestions, decide which of the following methods
you want to use to manage Code Suggestions requests:

- On GitLab.com or GitLab Self-Managed, the default GitLab AI vendor models and
  cloud-based AI gateway that is hosted by GitLab.
- On GitLab Self-Managed, in GitLab 17.9 and later, [GitLab Duo Self-Hosted with a supported self-hosted model](../../../../administration/gitlab_duo_self_hosted/_index.md).
  Self-hosted models maximize security and privacy by making sure nothing is
  sent to an external model.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
[View a click-through demo](https://gitlab.navattic.com/code-suggestions).
<!-- Video published on 2023-12-09 --> <!-- Demo published on 2024-02-01 -->

## Prerequisites

To use Code Suggestions, you need:

- A Premium or Ultimate subscription with the GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise add-on.
- An assigned seat in your GitLab Duo subscription.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

GitLab Duo requires GitLab 17.2 and later for the best user experience and results. Earlier versions may continue to work, however, the experience may be degraded. You should [upgrade to the latest version of GitLab](../../../../update/_index.md#upgrade-gitlab) for the best experience.

{{< /alert >}}

## Use Code Suggestions

Prerequisites:

- You must have [set up Code Suggestions](set_up.md).

To use Code Suggestions:

1. Open your Git project in a [supported IDE](supported_extensions.md#supported-editor-extensions).
1. Add the project as a remote of your local repository using
   [`git remote add`](../../../../topics/git/commands.md#git-remote-add).
1. Add your project directory, including the hidden `.git/` folder, to your IDE workspace or project.
1. Author your code.
   As you type, suggestions are displayed. Code Suggestions provides code snippets
   or completes the current line, depending on the cursor position.

1. Describe the requirements in natural language.
   Code Suggestions generates functions and code snippets based on the context provided.

1. When you receive a suggestion, you can do any of the following:
   - To accept a suggestion, press <kbd>Tab</kbd>.
   - To accept a partial suggestion, press either <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Right arrow</kbd> or <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Right arrow</kbd>.
   - To reject a suggestion, press <kbd>Esc</kbd>.
   - To ignore a suggestion, keep typing as you usually would.

## View multiple code suggestions

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/-/issues/1325) in GitLab 17.1.

{{< /history >}}

For a code completion suggestion in VS Code, multiple suggestion options
might be available. To view all available suggestions:

1. Hover over the code completion suggestion.
1. Scroll through the alternatives. Either:
   - Use keyboard shortcuts:
     - On a Mac, press <kbd>Option</kbd> + <kbd>]</kbd> to view the
       next suggestion, and <kbd>Option</kbd> + <kbd>&#91;</kbd> to view the previous
       suggestions.
     - On Windows, press <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>]</kbd> to view the
       next suggestion, and <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>&#91;</kbd> to view the previous
       suggestions.
   - On the dialog that's displayed, select the right or left arrow to see next or previous options.
1. Press <kbd>Tab</kbd> to apply the suggestion you prefer.

## Code completion and generation

Code Suggestions uses code completion and code generation:

|  | Code completion | Code generation |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Purpose | Provides suggestions for completing the current line of code.  | Generates new code based on a natural language comment. |
| Trigger | Triggers when typing, usually with a short delay.  | Triggers when pressing <kbd>Enter</kbd> after writing a comment that includes specific keywords. |
| Scope | Limited to the current line or small block of code.  | Can generate entire methods, functions, or even classes based on the context. |
| Accuracy | More accurate for small tasks and short blocks of code.  | Is more accurate for complex tasks and large blocks of code because a bigger large language model (LLM) is used, additional context is sent in the request (for example, the libraries used by the project), and your instructions are passed to the LLM. |
| How to use | Code completion automatically suggests completions to the line you are typing. | You write a comment and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>, or you enter an empty function or method. |
| When to use | Use code completion to quickly complete one or a few lines of code. | Use code generation for more complex tasks, larger codebases, when you want to write new code from scratch based on a natural language description, or when the file you're editing has fewer than five lines of code. |

Code Suggestions always uses both of these features. You cannot use only code
generation or only code completion.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
[View a code completion vs. code generation comparison demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9dsyqMt9yg4).
<!-- Video published on 2024-09-26 -->

### Best practices for code generation

To get the best results from code generation:

- Be as specific as possible while remaining concise.
- State the outcome you want to generate (for example, a function)
  and provide details on what you want to achieve.
- Add additional information, like the framework or library you want to use.
- Add a space or new line after each comment.
  This space tells the code generator that you have completed your instructions.
- In GitLab 17.2 and later, when the `advanced_context_resolver` and `code_suggestions_context`
  feature flags are enabled, open related files in other tabs to expand the
  [context that Code Suggestions is aware of](#use-files-open-in-tabs-as-context).

For example, to create a Python web service with some specific requirements,
you might write something like:

```plaintext
# Create a web service using Tornado that allows a user to sign in, run a security scan, and review the scan results.
# Each action (sign in, run a scan, and review results) should be its own resource in the web service
...
```

AI is non-deterministic, so you may not get the same suggestion every time with the same input.
To generate quality code, write clear, descriptive, specific tasks.

For use cases and best practices, follow the [GitLab Duo examples documentation](../../../gitlab_duo_examples.md).

## The context Code Suggestions is aware of

Code Suggestions is aware of the context you're working in.

| Context | Description | Default status |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| Current file content <sup>1</sup> | The file open in your IDE, including the content before and after the cursor in that file. | Always included. |
| Filename and extension | The name and extension of the current file. | Always included. |
| [Open tab files](#using-open-files-as-context) | Files open in tabs in your IDE. These files give GitLab Duo more information about the standards and practices in your code project. | Optional, but on by default. |
| [Imported files](#using-imported-files-as-context) | Files imported in the current opened file. These imported files give GitLab Duo more information about the classes and methods used in the current file. | Optional and off by default. |

**Footnotes:**

1. Code completion is aware of all [supported languages](supported_extensions.md#supported-languages-by-ide).
   Code generation is aware of files in these languages only:
   Go, Java, JavaScript, Kotlin, Python, Ruby, Rust, TypeScript (`.ts` and `.tsx` files), Vue, and YAML.

For more information, see [epic 57](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/-/epics/57).

### Enhanced suggestions

For the following languages, Code Suggestions uses [files open in tabs as context](_index.md#use-files-open-in-tabs-as-context)
and [Repository X-Ray](repository_xray.md) to deliver more accurate, context-aware suggestions:
C, C#, C++, Go, Java, JavaScript, Kotlin, Python, Ruby, Rust, PHP, and TypeScript.

### Using open files as context

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/464767) in GitLab 17.1 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `advanced_context_resolver`. Disabled by default.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/462750) in GitLab 17.1 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_context`. Disabled by default.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab-lsp/-/issues/276) in GitLab Workflow for VS Code 4.20.0.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab-jetbrains-plugin/-/issues/462) in GitLab Duo for JetBrains 2.7.0.
- [Added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab.vim/-/merge_requests/152) to the GitLab Neovim plugin on July 16, 2024.
- Feature flags `advanced_context_resolver` and `code_suggestions_context` enabled on GitLab.com in GitLab 17.2.
- Feature flags `advanced_context_resolver` and `code_suggestions_context` [enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/161538) in GitLab 17.4.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- JetBrains extension version 3.6.5 or later.
- Neovim extension version 1.1.0 or later.
- Visual Studio extension version 0.51.0 or later.
- VS Code extension version 6.2.2 or later.

If tab as context is on, Code Suggestions uses the files open in tabs in your IDE as context. These files give GitLab Duo more information about the standards and practices in your code project.

#### Turn on open files as context

By default, Code Suggestions uses the open files in your IDE for context when making suggestions.

Prerequisites:

- You must have GitLab 17.2 or later. Earlier GitLab versions that support Code Suggestions
  cannot weigh the content of open tabs more heavily than other files in your project.
- GitLab Duo Code Suggestions must be enabled for your project.
- Use a [supported code language](#the-context-code-suggestions-is-aware-of).
- For Visual Studio Code, you must have GitLab Workflow extension version 4.14.2 or later.

To confirm that files open in tabs are being used as context:

{{< tabs >}}

{{< tab title="Visual Studio Code" >}}

1. On the top bar, go to **Code > Settings > Extensions**.
1. Search for GitLab Workflow in the list, and select the gear icon.
1. Select **Extension Settings**.
1. In your **User** settings, under **GitLab › Duo Code Suggestions: Open Tabs Context**,
   select **Use the contents of open tabs as context**.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="JetBrains IDEs" >}}

1. Go to your IDE's top menu bar and select **Settings**.
1. On the left sidebar, expand **Tools**, then select **GitLab Duo**.
1. Expand **GitLab Language Server**.
1. Under **Code Completion**, select **Send open tabs as context**.
1. Select **OK** or **Save**.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Use files open in tabs as context

After you have confirmed that files open in tabs are being used as context,
open the files you want to provide for context:

- Code Suggestions uses the most recently opened or changed files.
- If you do not want a file used as additional context, close that file.

When you start working in a file, GitLab Duo uses your open files
as extra context, within [truncation limits](#truncation-of-file-content).

To adjust your code generation results, add code comments to your file
that explain what you want to build:

- Code generation treats your code comments like chat.
- Your code comments update the `user_instruction`, and then improve the next results you receive.

### Using imported files as context

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/514124) in GitLab 17.9 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_include_context_imports`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/514124) in GitLab 17.11.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Use the imported files in your IDE to provide context about your code project. Imported file context is supported for JavaScript and TypeScript files, including `.js`, `.jsx`, `.ts`, `.tsx`, and `.vue` file types.

## Truncation of file content

Because of LLM limits and performance reasons, the content of the currently
opened file is truncated:

- For code completion:
  - In GitLab 17.5 and earlier, to 2,048 tokens (roughly 8,192 characters).
  - In GitLab 17.6 and later, to 32,000 tokens (roughly 128,000 characters).
- For code generation: to 142,856 tokens (roughly 500,000 characters).

Content above the cursor is prioritized over content below the cursor. The content
above the cursor is truncated from the left side, and content below the cursor
is truncated from the right side. These numbers represent the maximum input context
size for Code Suggestions.

## Output length

Because of LLM limits and for performance reasons, the output of Code Suggestions
is limited:

- For code completion: to 64 tokens (roughly 256 characters).
- For code generation: to 2048 tokens (roughly 7168 characters).

## Accuracy of results

We are continuing to work on the accuracy of overall generated content.
However, Code Suggestions might generate suggestions that are:

- Irrelevant.
- Incomplete.
- Results in failed pipelines.
- Potentially insecure.
- Offensive or insensitive.

When using Code Suggestions, [code review best practice](../../../../development/code_review.md) still applies.

## How the prompt is built

To learn about the code that builds the prompt, see these files:

- **Code generation**:
  [`ee/lib/api/code_suggestions.rb`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/api/code_suggestions.rb#L76)
  in the `gitlab` repository.
- **Code completion**:
  [`ai_gateway/code_suggestions/processing/completions.py`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/modelops/applied-ml/code-suggestions/ai-assist/-/blob/fcb3f485a8f047a86a8166aad81f93b6d82106a7/ai_gateway/code_suggestions/processing/completions.py#L273)
  in the `modelops` repository.

## Response time

Code Suggestions is powered by a generative AI model.

- For code completion, suggestions are usually low latency and take less than one second.
- For code generation, algorithms or large code blocks might take more than five seconds to generate.

Your personal access token enables a secure API connection to GitLab.com or to your GitLab instance.
This API connection securely transmits a context window from your IDE/editor to the [GitLab AI gateway](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/modelops/applied-ml/code-suggestions/ai-assist), a GitLab hosted service. The [gateway](../../../../development/ai_architecture.md) calls the large language model APIs, and then the generated suggestion is transmitted back to your IDE/editor.

### Streaming

Streaming of Code Generation responses is supported in JetBrains and Visual Studio, leading to
perceived faster response times.
Other supported IDEs will return the generated code in a single block.

### Direct and indirect connections

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/462791) in GitLab 17.2 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_direct_access`. Disabled by default.

{{< /history >}}

By default, code completion requests are sent from the IDE directly to the AI gateway to minimize the latency.
For this direct connection to work, the IDE must be able to connect to `https://cloud.gitlab.com:443`. If this is not
possible (for example, because of network restrictions), you can disable direct connections for all users. If you do this,
code completion requests are sent indirectly through the GitLab Self-Managed instance, which in turn sends the requests
to the AI gateway. This might result in your requests having higher latency.

#### Configure direct or indirect connections

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator for the GitLab Self-Managed instance.

{{< tabs >}}

{{< tab title="In 17.4 and later" >}}

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **GitLab Duo features**.
1. Under **Connection method**, choose an option:
   - To minimize latency for code completion requests, select **Direct connections**.
   - To disable direct connections for all users, select **Indirect connections through the GitLab Self-Managed instance**.
1. Select **Save changes**.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="In 17.3 and earlier" >}}

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **AI-powered features**.
1. Choose an option:
   - To enable direct connections and minimize latency for code completion requests, clear the **Disable direct connections for code suggestions** checkbox.
   - To disable direct connections, select the **Disable direct connections for code suggestions** checkbox.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Feedback

Provide feedback about your Code Suggestions experience in [issue 435783](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435783).

Commit message:

Enable Fireworks/Codestral by default for code completion
Changelog: added
EE: true

doc/user/project/repository/code_suggestions/_index.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Creation
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Code Suggestions helps you write code in GitLab more efficiently by using AI to suggest code as you type.
title: Code Suggestions
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Add-on: GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise, GitLab Duo with Amazon Q
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated
- LLMs: For code completion, Vertex AI-hosted [`Codestral`](https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/mistralai/model-garden/codestral-2501) and Fireworks AI-hosted [`Codestral`](https://mistral.ai/news/codestral-2501). For code generation, Anthropic [Claude 3.7 Sonnet](https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/anthropic/model-garden/claude-3-7-sonnet).
- To opt out of Fireworks for a group, the feature flag `code_completion_opt_out_fireworks` is available.
- LLM for Amazon Q: Amazon Q Developer

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced support for Google Vertex AI Codey APIs](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10562) in GitLab 16.1.
- [Removed support for GitLab native model](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10752) in GitLab 16.2.
- [Introduced support for Code Generation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/415583) in GitLab 16.3.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435271) in GitLab 16.7.
- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/fulfillment/meta/-/issues/2031) to require the GitLab Duo Pro add-on on February 15, 2024. Previously, this feature was included with Premium and Ultimate subscriptions.
- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/fulfillment/meta/-/issues/2031) to require the GitLab Duo Pro or GitLab Duo Enterprise add-on for all supported GitLab versions starting October 17, 2024.
- [Introduced support for Fireworks AI-hosted Qwen2.5 code completion model](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/15850) in GitLab 17.6, with a flag named `fireworks_qwen_code_completion`.
- Removed support for Qwen2.5 code completion model
- Enabled Fireworks hosted `Codestral` by default via the feature flag `use_fireworks_codestral_code_completion` in GitLab 17.11

{{< /history >}}

Use GitLab Duo Code Suggestions to write code more efficiently by using generative AI to suggest code while you're developing.

Before you start using Code Suggestions, decide which of the following methods
you want to use to manage Code Suggestions requests:

- On GitLab.com or GitLab Self-Managed, the default GitLab AI vendor models and
  cloud-based AI gateway that is hosted by GitLab.
- On GitLab Self-Managed, in GitLab 17.9 and later, [GitLab Duo Self-Hosted with a supported self-hosted model](../../../../administration/gitlab_duo_self_hosted/_index.md).
  Self-hosted models maximize security and privacy by making sure nothing is
  sent to an external model.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
[View a click-through demo](https://gitlab.navattic.com/code-suggestions).
<!-- Video published on 2023-12-09 --> <!-- Demo published on 2024-02-01 -->

## Prerequisites

To use Code Suggestions, you need:

- A Premium or Ultimate subscription with the GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise add-on.
- An assigned seat in your GitLab Duo subscription.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

GitLab Duo requires GitLab 17.2 and later for the best user experience and results. Earlier versions may continue to work, however, the experience may be degraded. You should [upgrade to the latest version of GitLab](../../../../update/_index.md#upgrade-gitlab) for the best experience.

{{< /alert >}}

## Use Code Suggestions

Prerequisites:

- You must have [set up Code Suggestions](set_up.md).

To use Code Suggestions:

1. Open your Git project in a [supported IDE](supported_extensions.md#supported-editor-extensions).
1. Add the project as a remote of your local repository using
   [`git remote add`](../../../../topics/git/commands.md#git-remote-add).
1. Add your project directory, including the hidden `.git/` folder, to your IDE workspace or project.
1. Author your code.
   As you type, suggestions are displayed. Code Suggestions provides code snippets
   or completes the current line, depending on the cursor position.

1. Describe the requirements in natural language.
   Code Suggestions generates functions and code snippets based on the context provided.

1. When you receive a suggestion, you can do any of the following:
   - To accept a suggestion, press <kbd>Tab</kbd>.
   - To accept a partial suggestion, press either <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Right arrow</kbd> or <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Right arrow</kbd>.
   - To reject a suggestion, press <kbd>Esc</kbd>.
   - To ignore a suggestion, keep typing as you usually would.

## View multiple code suggestions

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/-/issues/1325) in GitLab 17.1.

{{< /history >}}

For a code completion suggestion in VS Code, multiple suggestion options
might be available. To view all available suggestions:

1. Hover over the code completion suggestion.
1. Scroll through the alternatives. Either:
   - Use keyboard shortcuts:
     - On a Mac, press <kbd>Option</kbd> + <kbd>]</kbd> to view the
       next suggestion, and <kbd>Option</kbd> + <kbd>&#91;</kbd> to view the previous
       suggestions.
     - On Windows, press <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>]</kbd> to view the
       next suggestion, and <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>&#91;</kbd> to view the previous
       suggestions.
   - On the dialog that's displayed, select the right or left arrow to see next or previous options.
1. Press <kbd>Tab</kbd> to apply the suggestion you prefer.

## Code completion and generation

Code Suggestions uses code completion and code generation:

|  | Code completion | Code generation |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Purpose | Provides suggestions for completing the current line of code.  | Generates new code based on a natural language comment. |
| Trigger | Triggers when typing, usually with a short delay.  | Triggers when pressing <kbd>Enter</kbd> after writing a comment that includes specific keywords. |
| Scope | Limited to the current line or small block of code.  | Can generate entire methods, functions, or even classes based on the context. |
| Accuracy | More accurate for small tasks and short blocks of code.  | Is more accurate for complex tasks and large blocks of code because a bigger large language model (LLM) is used, additional context is sent in the request (for example, the libraries used by the project), and your instructions are passed to the LLM. |
| How to use | Code completion automatically suggests completions to the line you are typing. | You write a comment and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>, or you enter an empty function or method. |
| When to use | Use code completion to quickly complete one or a few lines of code. | Use code generation for more complex tasks, larger codebases, when you want to write new code from scratch based on a natural language description, or when the file you're editing has fewer than five lines of code. |

Code Suggestions always uses both of these features. You cannot use only code
generation or only code completion.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
[View a code completion vs. code generation comparison demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9dsyqMt9yg4).
<!-- Video published on 2024-09-26 -->

### Best practices for code generation

To get the best results from code generation:

- Be as specific as possible while remaining concise.
- State the outcome you want to generate (for example, a function)
  and provide details on what you want to achieve.
- Add additional information, like the framework or library you want to use.
- Add a space or new line after each comment.
  This space tells the code generator that you have completed your instructions.
- In GitLab 17.2 and later, when the `advanced_context_resolver` and `code_suggestions_context`
  feature flags are enabled, open related files in other tabs to expand the
  [context that Code Suggestions is aware of](#use-files-open-in-tabs-as-context).

For example, to create a Python web service with some specific requirements,
you might write something like:

```plaintext
# Create a web service using Tornado that allows a user to sign in, run a security scan, and review the scan results.
# Each action (sign in, run a scan, and review results) should be its own resource in the web service
...
```

AI is non-deterministic, so you may not get the same suggestion every time with the same input.
To generate quality code, write clear, descriptive, specific tasks.

For use cases and best practices, follow the [GitLab Duo examples documentation](../../../gitlab_duo_examples.md).

## The context Code Suggestions is aware of

Code Suggestions is aware of the context you're working in.

| Context | Description | Default status |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| Current file content <sup>1</sup> | The file open in your IDE, including the content before and after the cursor in that file. | Always included. |
| Filename and extension | The name and extension of the current file. | Always included. |
| [Open tab files](#using-open-files-as-context) | Files open in tabs in your IDE. These files give GitLab Duo more information about the standards and practices in your code project. | Optional, but on by default. |
| [Imported files](#using-imported-files-as-context) | Files imported in the current opened file. These imported files give GitLab Duo more information about the classes and methods used in the current file. | Optional and off by default. |

**Footnotes:**

1. Code completion is aware of all [supported languages](supported_extensions.md#supported-languages-by-ide).
   Code generation is aware of files in these languages only:
   Go, Java, JavaScript, Kotlin, Python, Ruby, Rust, TypeScript (`.ts` and `.tsx` files), Vue, and YAML.

For more information, see [epic 57](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/-/epics/57).

### Enhanced suggestions

For the following languages, Code Suggestions uses [files open in tabs as context](_index.md#use-files-open-in-tabs-as-context)
and [Repository X-Ray](repository_xray.md) to deliver more accurate, context-aware suggestions:
C, C#, C++, Go, Java, JavaScript, Kotlin, Python, Ruby, Rust, PHP, and TypeScript.

### Using open files as context

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/464767) in GitLab 17.1 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `advanced_context_resolver`. Disabled by default.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/462750) in GitLab 17.1 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_context`. Disabled by default.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab-lsp/-/issues/276) in GitLab Workflow for VS Code 4.20.0.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab-jetbrains-plugin/-/issues/462) in GitLab Duo for JetBrains 2.7.0.
- [Added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab.vim/-/merge_requests/152) to the GitLab Neovim plugin on July 16, 2024.
- Feature flags `advanced_context_resolver` and `code_suggestions_context` enabled on GitLab.com in GitLab 17.2.
- Feature flags `advanced_context_resolver` and `code_suggestions_context` [enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/161538) in GitLab 17.4.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Prerequisites:

- JetBrains extension version 3.6.5 or later.
- Neovim extension version 1.1.0 or later.
- Visual Studio extension version 0.51.0 or later.
- VS Code extension version 6.2.2 or later.

If tab as context is on, Code Suggestions uses the files open in tabs in your IDE as context. These files give GitLab Duo more information about the standards and practices in your code project.

#### Turn on open files as context

By default, Code Suggestions uses the open files in your IDE for context when making suggestions.

Prerequisites:

- You must have GitLab 17.2 or later. Earlier GitLab versions that support Code Suggestions
  cannot weigh the content of open tabs more heavily than other files in your project.
- GitLab Duo Code Suggestions must be enabled for your project.
- Use a [supported code language](#the-context-code-suggestions-is-aware-of).
- For Visual Studio Code, you must have GitLab Workflow extension version 4.14.2 or later.

To confirm that files open in tabs are being used as context:

{{< tabs >}}

{{< tab title="Visual Studio Code" >}}

1. On the top bar, go to **Code > Settings > Extensions**.
1. Search for GitLab Workflow in the list, and select the gear icon.
1. Select **Extension Settings**.
1. In your **User** settings, under **GitLab › Duo Code Suggestions: Open Tabs Context**,
   select **Use the contents of open tabs as context**.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="JetBrains IDEs" >}}

1. Go to your IDE's top menu bar and select **Settings**.
1. On the left sidebar, expand **Tools**, then select **GitLab Duo**.
1. Expand **GitLab Language Server**.
1. Under **Code Completion**, select **Send open tabs as context**.
1. Select **OK** or **Save**.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

#### Use files open in tabs as context

After you have confirmed that files open in tabs are being used as context,
open the files you want to provide for context:

- Code Suggestions uses the most recently opened or changed files.
- If you do not want a file used as additional context, close that file.

When you start working in a file, GitLab Duo uses your open files
as extra context, within [truncation limits](#truncation-of-file-content).

To adjust your code generation results, add code comments to your file
that explain what you want to build:

- Code generation treats your code comments like chat.
- Your code comments update the `user_instruction`, and then improve the next results you receive.

### Using imported files as context

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/514124) in GitLab 17.9 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_include_context_imports`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/514124) in GitLab 17.11.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Use the imported files in your IDE to provide context about your code project. Imported file context is supported for JavaScript and TypeScript files, including `.js`, `.jsx`, `.ts`, `.tsx`, and `.vue` file types.

## Truncation of file content

Because of LLM limits and performance reasons, the content of the currently
opened file is truncated:

- For code completion:
  - In GitLab 17.5 and earlier, to 2,048 tokens (roughly 8,192 characters).
  - In GitLab 17.6 and later, to 32,000 tokens (roughly 128,000 characters).
- For code generation: to 142,856 tokens (roughly 500,000 characters).

Content above the cursor is prioritized over content below the cursor. The content
above the cursor is truncated from the left side, and content below the cursor
is truncated from the right side. These numbers represent the maximum input context
size for Code Suggestions.

## Output length

Because of LLM limits and for performance reasons, the output of Code Suggestions
is limited:

- For code completion: to 64 tokens (roughly 256 characters).
- For code generation: to 2048 tokens (roughly 7168 characters).

## Accuracy of results

We are continuing to work on the accuracy of overall generated content.
However, Code Suggestions might generate suggestions that are:

- Irrelevant.
- Incomplete.
- Results in failed pipelines.
- Potentially insecure.
- Offensive or insensitive.

When using Code Suggestions, [code review best practice](../../../../development/code_review.md) still applies.

## How the prompt is built

To learn about the code that builds the prompt, see these files:

- **Code generation**:
  [`ee/lib/api/code_suggestions.rb`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/api/code_suggestions.rb#L76)
  in the `gitlab` repository.
- **Code completion**:
  [`ai_gateway/code_suggestions/processing/completions.py`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/modelops/applied-ml/code-suggestions/ai-assist/-/blob/fcb3f485a8f047a86a8166aad81f93b6d82106a7/ai_gateway/code_suggestions/processing/completions.py#L273)
  in the `modelops` repository.

## Response time

Code Suggestions is powered by a generative AI model.

- For code completion, suggestions are usually low latency and take less than one second.
- For code generation, algorithms or large code blocks might take more than five seconds to generate.

Your personal access token enables a secure API connection to GitLab.com or to your GitLab instance.
This API connection securely transmits a context window from your IDE/editor to the [GitLab AI gateway](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/modelops/applied-ml/code-suggestions/ai-assist), a GitLab hosted service. The [gateway](../../../../development/ai_architecture.md) calls the large language model APIs, and then the generated suggestion is transmitted back to your IDE/editor.

### Streaming

Streaming of Code Generation responses is supported in JetBrains and Visual Studio, leading to
perceived faster response times.
Other supported IDEs will return the generated code in a single block.

### Direct and indirect connections

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/462791) in GitLab 17.2 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_direct_access`. Disabled by default.

{{< /history >}}

By default, code completion requests are sent from the IDE directly to the AI gateway to minimize the latency.
For this direct connection to work, the IDE must be able to connect to `https://cloud.gitlab.com:443`. If this is not
possible (for example, because of network restrictions), you can disable direct connections for all users. If you do this,
code completion requests are sent indirectly through the GitLab Self-Managed instance, which in turn sends the requests
to the AI gateway. This might result in your requests having higher latency.

#### Configure direct or indirect connections

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator for the GitLab Self-Managed instance.

{{< tabs >}}

{{< tab title="In 17.4 and later" >}}

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **GitLab Duo features**.
1. Under **Connection method**, choose an option:
   - To minimize latency for code completion requests, select **Direct connections**.
   - To disable direct connections for all users, select **Indirect connections through the GitLab Self-Managed instance**.
1. Select **Save changes**.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="In 17.3 and earlier" >}}

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **AI-powered features**.
1. Choose an option:
   - To enable direct connections and minimize latency for code completion requests, clear the **Disable direct connections for code suggestions** checkbox.
   - To disable direct connections, select the **Disable direct connections for code suggestions** checkbox.

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Feedback

Provide feedback about your Code Suggestions experience in [issue 435783](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435783).
