doc/tutorials/convert_personal_namespace_to_group/_index.md, before:

---
stage: Runtime
group: Organizations
info: For assistance with this tutorial, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects.
title: 'Tutorial: Convert a personal namespace into a group'
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com

{{< /details >}}

If you've started out with a personal [namespace](../../user/namespace/_index.md), but find
that you've outgrown its capabilities, you can switch to a group namespace instead.
With a group namespace, you can create multiple subgroups and manage their members and permissions.

You don't have to start from scratch. You can create a new group
and move your existing projects to the group to get the added benefits.
To find out how, see [Tutorial: Move your personal project to a group](../move_personal_project_to_group/_index.md).

You can also go one step further and convert your personal namespace into a group namespace.
Converting your namespace lets you keep the existing username and URL. For example, if your
username is `alex`, you can continue using the `https://gitlab.example.com/alex` URL for your group.

This tutorial shows you how to convert your personal namespace into a group namespace
using the following steps:

1. [Create a group](#create-a-group).
1. [Transfer projects from the personal namespace to the group](#transfer-projects-from-the-personal-namespace-to-the-group).
1. [Rename the original username](#rename-the-original-username).
1. [Rename the new group namespace to the original username](#rename-the-new-group-namespace-to-the-original-username).

For example, if your username for a personal namespace is `alex`, first create a group namespace named `alex-group`.
Then, move all projects from the `alex` to the `alex-group` namespace. Finally,
rename the `alex` namespace to `alex-user`, and `alex-group` namespace to the now available `alex` username.

## Create a group

1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New group**.
1. In **Group name**, enter a name for the group.
1. In **Group URL**, enter a path for the group, which is used as the namespace.
   Don't worry about the actual path, this is only temporary. You change this URL to the username of the personal namespace in the [final step](#rename-the-new-group-namespace-to-the-original-username).
1. Choose the [visibility level](../../user/public_access.md).
1. Optional. Fill in information to personalize your experience.
1. Select **Create group**.

## Transfer projects from the personal namespace to the group

Next, you must transfer your projects from the personal namespace to the new group.
You can transfer only one project at a time. If you want to transfer multiple projects,
you must perform the steps below for each project.

Before you start the transfer process, make sure you:

- Have the Owner role for the project.
- Remove [container images](../../user/packages/container_registry/_index.md#move-or-rename-container-registry-repositories).
  You can't transfer a project that contains container images.
- Remove npm packages. You can't update the root namespace of a project that contains npm packages.

To transfer a project to a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Advanced**.
1. Under **Transfer project**, choose the group to transfer the project to.
1. Select **Transfer project**.
1. Enter the project's name and select **Confirm**.

## Rename the original username

Next, rename the original username of the personal namespace, so that the username becomes available for the new group namespace.
You can keep on using the personal namespace for other personal projects, or [delete that user account](../../user/profile/account/delete_account.md)

From the moment you rename the personal namespace, the username becomes available, so it's possible that someone else registers an account with it. To avoid this, you should [rename the new group](#rename-the-new-group-namespace-to-the-original-username) as soon as possible.

To [change a user's username](../../user/profile/_index.md#change-your-username):

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. In the **Change username** section, enter a new username as the path.
1. Select **Update username**.

## Rename the new group namespace to the original username

Finally, rename the new group's URL to the username of the original personal namespace.

To [change your group path](../../user/group/manage.md#change-a-groups-path) (group URL):

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand the **Advanced** section.
1. Under **Change group URL**, enter the user's original username.
1. Select **Change group URL**.

That's it! You have now converted a personal namespace into a group, which opens up new possibilities of
working on projects and collaborating with more members.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/tutorials/convert_personal_namespace_to_group/_index.md, after:

---
stage: Runtime
group: Organizations
info: For assistance with this tutorial, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects.
title: 'Tutorial: Convert a personal namespace into a group'
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com

{{< /details >}}

If you've started out with a personal [namespace](../../user/namespace/_index.md), but find
that you've outgrown its capabilities, you can switch to a group namespace instead.
With a group namespace, you can create multiple subgroups and manage their members and permissions.

You don't have to start from scratch. You can create a new group
and move your existing projects to the group to get the added benefits.
To find out how, see [Tutorial: Move your personal project to a group](../move_personal_project_to_group/_index.md).

You can also go one step further and convert your personal namespace into a group namespace.
Converting your namespace lets you keep the existing username and URL. For example, if your
username is `alex`, you can continue using the `https://gitlab.example.com/alex` URL for your group.

This tutorial shows you how to convert your personal namespace into a group namespace
using the following steps:

1. [Create a group](#create-a-group).
1. [Transfer projects from the personal namespace to the group](#transfer-projects-from-the-personal-namespace-to-the-group).
1. [Rename the original username](#rename-the-original-username).
1. [Rename the new group namespace to the original username](#rename-the-new-group-namespace-to-the-original-username).

For example, if your username for a personal namespace is `alex`, first create a group namespace named `alex-group`.
Then, move all projects from the `alex` to the `alex-group` namespace. Finally,
rename the `alex` namespace to `alex-user`, and `alex-group` namespace to the now available `alex` username.

## Create a group

1. On the left sidebar, at the top, select **Create new** ({{< icon name="plus" >}}) and **New group**. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. In **Group name**, enter a name for the group.
1. In **Group URL**, enter a path for the group, which is used as the namespace.
   Don't worry about the actual path, this is only temporary. You change this URL to the username of the personal namespace in the [final step](#rename-the-new-group-namespace-to-the-original-username).
1. Choose the [visibility level](../../user/public_access.md).
1. Optional. Fill in information to personalize your experience.
1. Select **Create group**.

## Transfer projects from the personal namespace to the group

Next, you must transfer your projects from the personal namespace to the new group.
You can transfer only one project at a time. If you want to transfer multiple projects,
you must perform the steps below for each project.

Before you start the transfer process, make sure you:

- Have the Owner role for the project.
- Remove [container images](../../user/packages/container_registry/_index.md#move-or-rename-container-registry-repositories).
  You can't transfer a project that contains container images.
- Remove npm packages. You can't update the root namespace of a project that contains npm packages.

To transfer a project to a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Advanced**.
1. Under **Transfer project**, choose the group to transfer the project to.
1. Select **Transfer project**.
1. Enter the project's name and select **Confirm**.

## Rename the original username

Next, rename the original username of the personal namespace, so that the username becomes available for the new group namespace.
You can keep on using the personal namespace for other personal projects, or [delete that user account](../../user/profile/account/delete_account.md)

From the moment you rename the personal namespace, the username becomes available, so it's possible that someone else registers an account with it. To avoid this, you should [rename the new group](#rename-the-new-group-namespace-to-the-original-username) as soon as possible.

To [change a user's username](../../user/profile/_index.md#change-your-username):

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Account**.
1. In the **Change username** section, enter a new username as the path.
1. Select **Update username**.

## Rename the new group namespace to the original username

Finally, rename the new group's URL to the username of the original personal namespace.

To [change your group path](../../user/group/manage.md#change-a-groups-path) (group URL):

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand the **Advanced** section.
1. Under **Change group URL**, enter the user's original username.
1. Select **Change group URL**.

That's it! You have now converted a personal namespace into a group, which opens up new possibilities of
working on projects and collaborating with more members.
