doc/user/shortcuts.md, before:

---
stage: Growth
group: Engagement
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: GitLab keyboard shortcuts
description: Global shortcuts, navigation, and quick access.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

GitLab has several keyboard shortcuts you can use to access its different
features.

To display a window in GitLab that lists its keyboard shortcuts, use one of the
following methods:

- Press <kbd>?</kbd>.
- In the lower-left corner of the application, select **Help** and then **Keyboard shortcuts**.

Although [global shortcuts](#global-shortcuts) work from any area of GitLab,
you must be in specific pages for the other shortcuts to be available, as
explained in each section.

## Global shortcuts

These shortcuts are available in most areas of GitLab:

| Keyboard shortcut                  | Description |
|------------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>?</kbd>                       | Show or hide the shortcut reference sheet. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>h</kbd>      | Go to the homepage. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>      | Go to your **Projects** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>g</kbd>      | Go to your **Groups** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd>      | Go to your **Activity** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>l</kbd>      | Go to your **Milestones** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>s</kbd>      | Go to your **Snippets** page. |
| <kbd>s</kbd> / <kbd>/</kbd>        | Put cursor in the search bar. |
| <kbd>f</kbd>                       | Focus filter bar |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>      | Go to your **Issues** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>m</kbd>      | Go to your **Merge requests** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>      | Go to your **Review requests** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>t</kbd>      | Go to your **To-Do List** page. |
| <kbd>p</kbd>, then <kbd>b</kbd>    | Show or hide the Performance Bar. |
| <kbd>Escape</kbd>                  | Hide tooltips or popovers. |
| <kbd>g</kbd>, then <kbd>x</kbd>    | Toggle between [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) and [GitLab Next](https://next.gitlab.com/) (GitLab SaaS only). |
| <kbd>.</kbd>                       | Open the [Web IDE](project/web_ide/_index.md). |
| <kbd>d</kbd>                       | Open GitLab Duo Chat |

Additionally, the following shortcuts are available when editing text in text
fields (for example, comments, replies, issue descriptions, and merge request
descriptions):

| macOS shortcut                                       | Windows shortcut                                   | Description |
|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>↑</kbd>                                         | <kbd>↑</kbd>                                       | Edit your last comment. You must be in a blank text field below a thread, and you must already have at least one comment in the thread. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>     | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | Toggle Markdown preview when editing text in a text field that has **Write** and **Preview** tabs at the top. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>                    | Bold the selected text (surround it with `**`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>                    | Italicize the selected text (surround it with `_`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>     | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>   | Strike through the selected text (surround it with `~~`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>                    | Add a link (surround the selected text with `[]()`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>[</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>[</kbd>                    | Outdent text. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>]</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>]</kbd>                    | Indent text. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd>                  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd>                | Submit or save changes |

The shortcuts for editing in text fields are always enabled, even if other
keyboard shortcuts are disabled.

## Project

These shortcuts are available from any page in a project. You must type them
relatively quickly to work, and they take you to another page in the project.

| Keyboard shortcut           | Description |
|-----------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>o</kbd>   | Go to the **Project overview** page. |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd>   | Go to the project **Activity** page (**Manage** > **Activity**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>   | Go to the project **Releases** page (**Deploy** > **Releases**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>f</kbd>   | Go to the [project files](#project-files) (**Code** > **Repository**). |
| <kbd>t</kbd>                | Open the project file search dialog. (**Code** > **Repository**, select **Find Files**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd>   | Go to the project **Commits** page (**Code** > **Commits**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>n</kbd>   | Go to the [**Repository graph**](#repository-graph) page (**Code** > **Repository graph**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>d</kbd>   | Go to the charts in the **Repository analytics** page (**Analyze** > **Repository analytics**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>   | Go to the project **Issues** page (**Plan** > **Issues**). |
| <kbd>i</kbd>                | Go to the **New Issue** page (**Plan** > **Issues**, select **New issue** ). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>   | Go to the project **Issue boards** page (**Plan** > **Issue boards**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>m</kbd>   | Go to the project **Merge requests** page (**Code** > **Merge requests**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | Go to the CI/CD **Pipelines** page (**Build** > **Pipelines**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>j</kbd>   | Go to the CI/CD **Jobs** page (**Build** > **Jobs**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>e</kbd>   | Go to the project **Environments** page (**Operate** > **Environments**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>   | Go to the project **Kubernetes clusters** integration page (**Operate** > **Kubernetes clusters**). You must have at least [`maintainer` permissions](permissions.md) to access this page. |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>s</kbd>   | Go to the project **Snippets** page (**Code** > **Snippets**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>w</kbd>   | Go to the project wiki (**Plan** > **Wiki**), if enabled. |
| <kbd>.</kbd>                | Open the Web IDE. |

### Issues

These shortcuts are available when viewing issues:

| Keyboard shortcut           | Description |
|-----------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>e</kbd>                | Edit description. |
| <kbd>a</kbd>                | Change assignee. |
| <kbd>m</kbd>                | Change milestone. |
| <kbd>l</kbd>                | Change label. |
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>   | Copy issue reference. |
| <kbd>r</kbd>                | Start writing a comment. Pre-selected text is quoted in the comment. |
| <kbd>→</kbd>                | Go to the next design. |
| <kbd>←</kbd>                | Go to the previous design. |
| <kbd>Escape</kbd>           | Close the design. |

### Merge requests

These shortcuts are available when viewing [merge requests](project/merge_requests/_index.md):

| macOS shortcut                    | Windows shortcut                  | Description |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>]</kbd> or <kbd>j</kbd>      |                                   | Move to next file. |
| <kbd>&#91;</kbd> or <kbd>k</kbd>  |                                   | Move to previous file. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | Search for, and then jump to a file for review. |
| <kbd>n</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to next open thread. |
| <kbd>p</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to previous open thread. |
| <kbd>b</kbd>                      |                                   | Copy source branch name. |
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>         |                                   | Copy merge request reference. |
| <kbd>r</kbd>                      |                                   | Start writing a comment. Pre-selected text is quoted in the comment. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | Publish your comment immediately. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | Add your comment in a pending state, as part of a review. |
| <kbd>c</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to next commit. |
| <kbd>x</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to previous commit. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>f</kbd>     |                                   | Toggle file browser. |
| <kbd>v</kbd>                      |                                   | Mark file as viewed or unviewed. |
| <kbd>;</kbd>                      |                                   | Expand all files. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>;</kbd>     |                                   | Collapse all files. |

### Project files

These shortcuts are available when browsing the files in a project (go to
**Code** > **Repository**):

| Keyboard shortcut | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>↑</kbd>      | Move selection up (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>↓</kbd>      | Move selection down (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>Enter</kbd>  | Open selection (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>Escape</kbd> | Go back to the **Find File** screen (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>y</kbd>      | Go to file permalink (only while viewing a file). |
| <kbd>.</kbd>      | Open the Web IDE. |

### Repository graph

These shortcuts are available when viewing the project [repository graph](project/repository/_index.md#repository-history-graph)
page (go to **Code** > **Repository graph**):

| Keyboard shortcut                                                  | Description |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>←</kbd> or <kbd>h</kbd>                                       | Scroll left. |
| <kbd>→</kbd> or <kbd>l</kbd>                                       | Scroll right. |
| <kbd>↑</kbd> or <kbd>k</kbd>                                       | Scroll up. |
| <kbd>↓</kbd> or <kbd>j</kbd>                                       | Scroll down. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> or <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>     | Scroll to top. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> or <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>j</kbd>     | Scroll to bottom. |

### Incidents

These shortcuts are available when viewing incidents:

| Keyboard shortcut             | Description |
|-------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>     | Copy incident reference. |

### Wiki pages

This shortcut is available when viewing a [wiki page](project/wiki/_index.md):

| Keyboard shortcut | Description     |
|-------------------|-----------------|
| <kbd>e</kbd>      | Edit wiki page. |

### Rich text editor

These shortcuts are available when editing a file with the
[rich text editor](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/plan/knowledge/content_editor/):

| macOS shortcut | Windows shortcut | Description |
|----------------|------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | Copy |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd> | Cut |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | Paste |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | Paste without formatting |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>z</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>z</kbd> | Undo |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | Redo |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | Add a line break |

#### Formatting

| macOS shortcut | Windows/Linux shortcut | Description |
|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>  | Bold |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>   | Italic |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>   | Strikethrough |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>   | Insert a link |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>0</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>0</kbd> | Apply normal text style |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd> | Apply heading style 1 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>2</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>2</kbd> | Apply heading style 2 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>3</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>3</kbd> | Apply heading style 3 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>4</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>4</kbd> | Apply heading style 4 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>5</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>5</kbd> | Apply heading style 5 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>6</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>6</kbd> | Apply heading style 6 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>7</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>7</kbd> | Ordered list |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>8</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>8</kbd> | Unordered list |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>9</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>9</kbd> | Task list |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | Code block |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>h</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>h</kbd> | Highlight |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd> | Subscript |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>.</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>.</kbd> | Superscript |
| <kbd>Tab</kbd> | <kbd>Tab</kbd> | Indent list |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> | Outdent list |

#### Text selection

| macOS shortcut                    | Windows shortcut                  | Description |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd>   | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd>   | Select all |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>←</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>←</kbd>     | Extend selection one character to left |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>→</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>→</kbd>     | Extend selection one character to right |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd>     | Extend selection one line up |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd>     | Extend selection one line down |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> | Extend selection to the beginning of the document |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> | Extend selection to the end of the document |

## Epics

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

These shortcuts are available when viewing [epics](group/epics/_index.md):

| Keyboard shortcut            | Description       |
|------------------------------|-------------------|
| <kbd>e</kbd>                 | Edit description. |
| <kbd>l</kbd>                 | Change label.     |
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>    | Copy epic reference. |

## Disable keyboard shortcuts

{{< history >}}

- [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/202494) from the shortcuts page to user preferences in GitLab 16.4.

{{< /history >}}

To disable keyboard shortcuts:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Preferences**.
1. In the **Behavior** section, clear the **Enable keyboard shortcuts** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Enable keyboard shortcuts

{{< history >}}

- [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/202494) from the shortcuts page to user preferences in GitLab 16.4.

{{< /history >}}

To enable keyboard shortcuts:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Preferences**.
1. In the **Behavior** section, select the **Enable keyboard shortcuts** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Troubleshooting

### Linux shortcuts

Linux users may encounter GitLab keyboard shortcuts that are overridden by
their operating system, or their browser.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/user/shortcuts.md, after:

---
stage: Growth
group: Engagement
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: GitLab keyboard shortcuts
description: Global shortcuts, navigation, and quick access.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

GitLab has several keyboard shortcuts you can use to access its different
features.

To display a window in GitLab that lists its keyboard shortcuts, use one of the
following methods:

- Press <kbd>?</kbd>.
- In the lower-left corner of the application, select **Help** and then **Keyboard shortcuts**.

Although [global shortcuts](#global-shortcuts) work from any area of GitLab,
you must be in specific pages for the other shortcuts to be available, as
explained in each section.

## Global shortcuts

These shortcuts are available in most areas of GitLab:

| Keyboard shortcut                  | Description |
|------------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>?</kbd>                       | Show or hide the shortcut reference sheet. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>h</kbd>      | Go to the homepage. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>      | Go to your **Projects** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>g</kbd>      | Go to your **Groups** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd>      | Go to your **Activity** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>l</kbd>      | Go to your **Milestones** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>s</kbd>      | Go to your **Snippets** page. |
| <kbd>s</kbd> / <kbd>/</kbd>        | Put cursor in the search bar. |
| <kbd>f</kbd>                       | Focus filter bar |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>      | Go to your **Issues** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>m</kbd>      | Go to your **Merge requests** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>      | Go to your **Review requests** page. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>t</kbd>      | Go to your **To-Do List** page. |
| <kbd>p</kbd>, then <kbd>b</kbd>    | Show or hide the Performance Bar. |
| <kbd>Escape</kbd>                  | Hide tooltips or popovers. |
| <kbd>g</kbd>, then <kbd>x</kbd>    | Toggle between [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) and [GitLab Next](https://next.gitlab.com/) (GitLab SaaS only). |
| <kbd>.</kbd>                       | Open the [Web IDE](project/web_ide/_index.md). |
| <kbd>d</kbd>                       | Open GitLab Duo Chat |

Additionally, the following shortcuts are available when editing text in text
fields (for example, comments, replies, issue descriptions, and merge request
descriptions):

| macOS shortcut                                       | Windows shortcut                                   | Description |
|------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>↑</kbd>                                         | <kbd>↑</kbd>                                       | Edit your last comment. You must be in a blank text field below a thread, and you must already have at least one comment in the thread. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>     | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | Toggle Markdown preview when editing text in a text field that has **Write** and **Preview** tabs at the top. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>                    | Bold the selected text (surround it with `**`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>                    | Italicize the selected text (surround it with `_`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>     | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>   | Strike through the selected text (surround it with `~~`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>                    | Add a link (surround the selected text with `[]()`). |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>[</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>[</kbd>                    | Outdent text. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>]</kbd>                      | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>]</kbd>                    | Indent text. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd>                  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd>                | Submit or save changes |

The shortcuts for editing in text fields are always enabled, even if other
keyboard shortcuts are disabled.

## Project

These shortcuts are available from any page in a project. You must type them
relatively quickly to work, and they take you to another page in the project.

| Keyboard shortcut           | Description |
|-----------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>o</kbd>   | Go to the **Project overview** page. |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd>   | Go to the project **Activity** page (**Manage** > **Activity**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>   | Go to the project **Releases** page (**Deploy** > **Releases**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>f</kbd>   | Go to the [project files](#project-files) (**Code** > **Repository**). |
| <kbd>t</kbd>                | Open the project file search dialog. (**Code** > **Repository**, select **Find Files**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd>   | Go to the project **Commits** page (**Code** > **Commits**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>n</kbd>   | Go to the [**Repository graph**](#repository-graph) page (**Code** > **Repository graph**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>d</kbd>   | Go to the charts in the **Repository analytics** page (**Analyze** > **Repository analytics**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>   | Go to the project **Issues** page (**Plan** > **Issues**). |
| <kbd>i</kbd>                | Go to the **New Issue** page (**Plan** > **Issues**, select **New issue** ). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>   | Go to the project **Issue boards** page (**Plan** > **Issue boards**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>m</kbd>   | Go to the project **Merge requests** page (**Code** > **Merge requests**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | Go to the CI/CD **Pipelines** page (**Build** > **Pipelines**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>j</kbd>   | Go to the CI/CD **Jobs** page (**Build** > **Jobs**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>e</kbd>   | Go to the project **Environments** page (**Operate** > **Environments**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>   | Go to the project **Kubernetes clusters** integration page (**Operate** > **Kubernetes clusters**). You must have at least [`maintainer` permissions](permissions.md) to access this page. |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>s</kbd>   | Go to the project **Snippets** page (**Code** > **Snippets**). |
| <kbd>g</kbd>+<kbd>w</kbd>   | Go to the project wiki (**Plan** > **Wiki**), if enabled. |
| <kbd>.</kbd>                | Open the Web IDE. |

### Issues

These shortcuts are available when viewing issues:

| Keyboard shortcut           | Description |
|-----------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>e</kbd>                | Edit description. |
| <kbd>a</kbd>                | Change assignee. |
| <kbd>m</kbd>                | Change milestone. |
| <kbd>l</kbd>                | Change label. |
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>   | Copy issue reference. |
| <kbd>r</kbd>                | Start writing a comment. Pre-selected text is quoted in the comment. |
| <kbd>→</kbd>                | Go to the next design. |
| <kbd>←</kbd>                | Go to the previous design. |
| <kbd>Escape</kbd>           | Close the design. |

### Merge requests

These shortcuts are available when viewing [merge requests](project/merge_requests/_index.md):

| macOS shortcut                    | Windows shortcut                  | Description |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>]</kbd> or <kbd>j</kbd>      |                                   | Move to next file. |
| <kbd>&#91;</kbd> or <kbd>k</kbd>  |                                   | Move to previous file. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>p</kbd>   | Search for, and then jump to a file for review. |
| <kbd>n</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to next open thread. |
| <kbd>p</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to previous open thread. |
| <kbd>b</kbd>                      |                                   | Copy source branch name. |
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>         |                                   | Copy merge request reference. |
| <kbd>r</kbd>                      |                                   | Start writing a comment. Pre-selected text is quoted in the comment. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | Publish your comment immediately. |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | Add your comment in a pending state, as part of a review. |
| <kbd>c</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to next commit. |
| <kbd>x</kbd>                      |                                   | Move to previous commit. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>f</kbd>     |                                   | Toggle file browser. |
| <kbd>v</kbd>                      |                                   | Mark file as viewed or unviewed. |
| <kbd>;</kbd>                      |                                   | Expand all files. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>;</kbd>     |                                   | Collapse all files. |

### Project files

These shortcuts are available when browsing the files in a project (go to
**Code** > **Repository**):

| Keyboard shortcut | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>↑</kbd>      | Move selection up (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>↓</kbd>      | Move selection down (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>Enter</kbd>  | Open selection (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>Escape</kbd> | Go back to the **Find File** screen (only while searching for files, **Code** > **Repository**, then select **Find File**). |
| <kbd>y</kbd>      | Go to file permalink (only while viewing a file). |
| <kbd>.</kbd>      | Open the Web IDE. |

### Repository graph

These shortcuts are available when viewing the project [repository graph](project/repository/_index.md#repository-history-graph)
page (go to **Code** > **Repository graph**):

| Keyboard shortcut                                                  | Description |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>←</kbd> or <kbd>h</kbd>                                       | Scroll left. |
| <kbd>→</kbd> or <kbd>l</kbd>                                       | Scroll right. |
| <kbd>↑</kbd> or <kbd>k</kbd>                                       | Scroll up. |
| <kbd>↓</kbd> or <kbd>j</kbd>                                       | Scroll down. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> or <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>     | Scroll to top. |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> or <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>j</kbd>     | Scroll to bottom. |

### Incidents

These shortcuts are available when viewing incidents:

| Keyboard shortcut             | Description |
|-------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>     | Copy incident reference. |

### Wiki pages

This shortcut is available when viewing a [wiki page](project/wiki/_index.md):

| Keyboard shortcut | Description     |
|-------------------|-----------------|
| <kbd>e</kbd>      | Edit wiki page. |

### Rich text editor

These shortcuts are available when editing a file with the
[rich text editor](https://about.gitlab.com/direction/plan/knowledge/content_editor/):

| macOS shortcut | Windows shortcut | Description |
|----------------|------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | Copy |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd> | Cut |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | Paste |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | Paste without formatting |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>z</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>z</kbd> | Undo |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>v</kbd> | Redo |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> | Add a line break |

#### Formatting

| macOS shortcut | Windows/Linux shortcut | Description |
|----------------|------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>b</kbd>  | Bold |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>i</kbd>   | Italic |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd>   | Strikethrough |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>k</kbd>   | Insert a link |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>0</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>0</kbd> | Apply normal text style |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd> | Apply heading style 1 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>2</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>2</kbd> | Apply heading style 2 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>3</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>3</kbd> | Apply heading style 3 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>4</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>4</kbd> | Apply heading style 4 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>5</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>5</kbd> | Apply heading style 5 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>6</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>6</kbd> | Apply heading style 6 |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>7</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>7</kbd> | Ordered list |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>8</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>8</kbd> | Unordered list |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>9</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>9</kbd> | Task list |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>c</kbd> | Code block |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>h</kbd>  | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>h</kbd> | Highlight |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd> | Subscript |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>.</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>.</kbd> | Superscript |
| <kbd>Tab</kbd> | <kbd>Tab</kbd> | Indent list |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> | Outdent list |

#### Text selection

| macOS shortcut                    | Windows shortcut                  | Description |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------|
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd>   | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd>   | Select all |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>←</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>←</kbd>     | Extend selection one character to left |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>→</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>→</kbd>     | Extend selection one character to right |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd>     | Extend selection one line up |
| <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd>     | <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd>     | Extend selection one line down |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↑</kbd> | Extend selection to the beginning of the document |
| <kbd>Command</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> | <kbd>Control</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>↓</kbd> | Extend selection to the end of the document |

## Epics

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

These shortcuts are available when viewing [epics](group/epics/_index.md):

| Keyboard shortcut            | Description       |
|------------------------------|-------------------|
| <kbd>e</kbd>                 | Edit description. |
| <kbd>l</kbd>                 | Change label.     |
| <kbd>c</kbd>+<kbd>r</kbd>    | Copy epic reference. |

## Disable keyboard shortcuts

{{< history >}}

- [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/202494) from the shortcuts page to user preferences in GitLab 16.4.

{{< /history >}}

To disable keyboard shortcuts:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Preferences**.
1. In the **Behavior** section, clear the **Enable keyboard shortcuts** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Enable keyboard shortcuts

{{< history >}}

- [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/202494) from the shortcuts page to user preferences in GitLab 16.4.

{{< /history >}}

To enable keyboard shortcuts:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Preferences**.
1. In the **Behavior** section, select the **Enable keyboard shortcuts** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Troubleshooting

### Linux shortcuts

Linux users may encounter GitLab keyboard shortcuts that are overridden by
their operating system, or their browser.
