doc/user/enterprise_user/_index.md, before:

---
stage: Software Supply Chain Security
group: Authentication
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Enterprise users
description: Manage organization users through domain verification and centralized enterprise controls.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com

{{< /details >}}

Enterprise users are similar to standard GitLab users, but are administered by an organization.
Each enterprise user is claimed and managed by a specific top-level group. To claim enterprise
users, you must verify a group domain and have an active [subscription](../../subscriptions/_index.md).

If the subscription expires or is canceled:

- Any existing enterprise users remain enterprise users in the group.
- Group Owners cannot manage their enterprise users.
- Primary emails for user accounts must be from a verified domain.
- New enterprise users cannot be associated with the group until a subscription is renewed.

## Manage group domains

To claim GitLab.com users as enterprise users, you must add and verify ownership of a domain.
Group domains are added to the top-level group and apply to all subgroups and projects
in the group.

While each group can have multiple domains, you can associate each domain with only one group
at a time. If you move your domain to another paid group, all enterprise users are automatically
claimed by the new group.

Group domains are linked to a project in your top-level group. The linked project needs
[GitLab Pages](../project/pages/_index.md), but does not need to create a GitLab Pages website.
If GitLab Pages is turned off, you cannot verify the domain.

Even though the domain is linked to a project, it is available to the entire group hierarchy
including all nested subgroups and projects. Members in the linked project with
[at least the Maintainer role](../permissions.md#project-members-permissions) can modify or remove
the domain. If this project is deleted, your associated domains are also removed.

For more information on group domains, see [epic 5299](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5299).

### Add group domains

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a top-level group.
- You must control a custom domain `example.com` or subdomain `subdomain.example.com` that matches the email domain you want to verify.
- You must be able to create DNS `TXT` records for your domain to prove ownership.
- You must have a dedicated project in the top-level group that uses
  [GitLab Pages](../project/pages/_index.md).

To add a custom domain for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
1. In the upper-right corner, select **Add Domain**.
1. Configure the domain settings:
   - **Domain**: Enter the domain name.
   - **Project**: Link to an existing project in the group.
   - **Certificate**: Select a certificate option:
     - If you do not have or do not want to use an SSL/TLS certificate, select
       **Automatic certificate management using Let's Encrypt**.
     - If you want to provide your own SSL/TLS certificate, select
       **Manually enter certificate information**. You can also add a certificate and key later.

        {{< alert type="note" >}}

        A valid certificate is not required for domain verification. You can ignore self-signed certificate warnings
        if you are not using GitLab Pages.

        {{< /alert >}}

1. Select **Add Domain**.
   GitLab saves the domain information.
1. Verify ownership of the domain:
   1. In **TXT**, copy the verification code.
   1. In your domain provider DNS settings, add the verification code as a `TXT` record.
   1. In GitLab, on the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
   1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
   1. Next to the domain name, select **Retry verification** ({{< icon name="retry" >}}).

After successful verification, the domain status changes to **Verified** and can be used for enterprise user management.

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Generally, DNS propagation completes in a few minutes, but can take up to 24 hours.
   Until it completes, the domain remains unverified in GitLab.

   If the domain is still unverified after seven days, GitLab automatically removes the domain.

   After verification, GitLab periodically reverifies the domain. To avoid potential issues,
   maintain the `TXT` record on your domain provider.

   {{< /alert >}}

### View group domains

To view all custom domains for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.

### Edit group domains

To edit a custom domain for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
1. Next to the domain name, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).

From here, you can:

- View the custom domain.
- View the DNS record to add.
- View the TXT verification entry.
- Retry verification.
- Edit the certificate settings.

### Delete group domains

Deleting a group domain can impact enterprise users in your group. After you delete the domain:

- Any existing enterprise users remain enterprise users in the group.
- Primary emails for user accounts must be from a verified domain.
- New enterprise users cannot be associated with the group until another domain is verified.

To delete a custom domain for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
1. Next to the domain name, select **Remove domain** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}).
1. When prompted, select **Delete domain**.

## Manage enterprise users

In addition to the standard [group member permissions](../permissions.md#group-members-permissions),
Owners of a top-level group can also manage enterprise users in their group.

You can also [use the API](../../api/group_enterprise_users.md) to interact with enterprise users.

### Automatic claims of enterprise users

Prerequisites:

- The top-level group must [add and verify a group domain](#add-group-domains).
- The user account must meet at least one of the following conditions:
  - The user account was created on or after February 1, 2021.
  - The user account has a SAML or SCIM identity tied to the organization's group.
  - The user account has a `provisioned_by_group_id` attribute that matches the group ID.
  - The user account is already a member of the group subscription purchased or renewed on or after February 1, 2021.

After a group verifies ownership of a domain, users with an email address from a domain are
automatically claimed by the group as enterprise users. No direct action is needed from
group Owners.

Any existing group members with an email address from a different domain retain their existing
access, but can not be managed by group Owners. To claim these users, they must update their
primary email address to match your group domain.

The claim process can take up to four days to trigger. You can immediately run this process by manually [re-verifying the group domain](#edit-group-domains).

After a group claims an enterprise user:

- The user receives a [welcome email](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/app/views/notify/user_associated_with_enterprise_group_email.html.haml).
- The group ID is added to the user's `enterprise_group_id` attribute.

### Identifying enterprise users

You can identify enterprise users from the [members list](../group/_index.md#filter-and-sort-members-in-a-group).
All enterprise users have an `Enterprise` badge next to their names.

You can discover any non-enterprise group members by analyzing the list of billable users at:
`https://gitlab.com/groups/<group_id>/-/usage_quotas#seats-quota-tab`.

From this list, non-enterprise users have one of the following:

- An email address from a non-verified domain.
- No visible email address.

### Restrict authentication methods

You can restrict the specific authentication methods available to enterprise users, which can help
reduce the security footprint of your users.

- [Disable password authentication](../group/saml_sso/_index.md#disable-password-authentication-for-enterprise-users).
- [Disable personal access tokens](../../user/profile/personal_access_tokens.md#disable-personal-access-tokens-for-enterprise-users).
- [Disable two-factor authentication](../../security/two_factor_authentication.md#enterprise-users).

### Restrict group and project creation

You can restrict group and project creation for enterprise users, which helps you define:

- If enterprise users can create top-level groups.
- The maximum number of personal projects each enterprise user can create.

These restrictions are defined in the SAML response. For more information, see
[configure enterprise user settings from the SAML response](../group/saml_sso/_index.md#configure-enterprise-user-settings-from-saml-response).

### Bypass email confirmation for provisioned users

By default, users provisioned with SAML or SCIM are sent a verification email to verify their
identity. Instead, you can configure GitLab with a custom domain and GitLab automatically
confirms user accounts. Users still receive an enterprise user welcome email.

For more information, see [bypass user email confirmation with verified domains](../group/saml_sso/_index.md#bypass-user-email-confirmation-with-verified-domains).

### View the email addresses for an enterprise user

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a top-level group.

To view an enterprise user's email address:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project or group.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Hover over the enterprise user's name.

You can also use the [group and project members API](../../api/members.md)
to access users' information. For enterprise users of the group, this information
includes users' email addresses.

### Change the email addresses for an enterprise user

Enterprise users can follow the same process as other GitLab users to
[change their primary email address](../../user/profile/_index.md#change-your-primary-email).
The new email address must be from a verified domain. If your organization has no verified
domains, your enterprise users cannot change their primary email address.

Only GitLab support can change the primary email address to an email address from a
non-verified domain. This action [releases the enterprise user](#release-an-enterprise-user).

### Delete an enterprise user

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the top-level group.

You can use the [group enterprise users API](../../api/group_enterprise_users.md#delete-an-enterprise-user)
to delete an enterprise user and permanently remove the account from GitLab. This action is different from
releasing the user which only removes the enterprise management features from the user. When you delete
the user, you can choose to either:

- Permanently delete the user and their
  [contributions](../../user/profile/account/delete_account.md#associated-records).
- Keep their contributions and transfer them to a system-wide ghost user account.

### Release an enterprise user

You can remove enterprise management features from a user account. Removing an enterprise user might be required if, for
example, a user wants to keep their GitLab account after leaving their company. Releasing a user
does not alter their account roles or permissions, but removes the management options
for the group Owner. If you need to permanently remove the account, you should
[delete the user](#delete-an-enterprise-user) instead.

To release the user, GitLab support must update the user's primary email address to an
email address from a non-verified domain. This action automatically releases the account.

Allowing group Owners to change primary emails is proposed in
[issue 412966](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/412966).

### Enable the Extension Marketplace for enterprise users

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/161819) as a [beta](../../policy/development_stages_support.md#beta) in GitLab 17.4 [with flags](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `web_ide_oauth` and `web_ide_extensions_marketplace`. Disabled by default.
- `web_ide_oauth` [enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/163181) in GitLab 17.4.
- `web_ide_extensions_marketplace` [enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/459028) in GitLab 17.4.
- `web_ide_oauth` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/167464) in GitLab 17.5.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/508996) the `vscode_extension_marketplace_settings` [feature flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) in GitLab 17.10. Disabled by default.
- `web_ide_extensions_marketplace` [enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184662), and `vscode_extension_marketplace_settings` [enabled on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184662) in GitLab 17.11.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/192659) in GitLab 18.1. Feature flags `web_ide_extensions_marketplace` and `vscode_extension_marketplace_settings` removed.

{{< /history >}}

The VS Code Extension Marketplace provides access to extensions that enhance the functionality of the
Web IDE and Workspaces. Top-level group Owners can control access to the marketplace for enterprise
users in their group.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a top-level group.

To enable the Extension Marketplace for enterprise users:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Permissions and group features**.
1. Under **Web IDE and workspaces**, select the **Enable extension marketplace** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Troubleshooting

### Cannot disable two-factor authentication for an enterprise user

If a user does not have an **Enterprise** badge, a group Owner cannot disable or reset 2FA for their
account. Instead, the Owner should tell the enterprise user to consider available
[recovery options](../profile/account/two_factor_authentication_troubleshooting.md#recovery-options-and-2fa-reset).

## Related topics

- [GitLab Pages custom domains](../project/pages/custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/_index.md).

Commit message:

Disable SSH Keys for Enterprise users
Implementation of the feature to disable SSH keys for Enterprise users,
enhancing flexibility for organizations to control access to git.

Changelog: added
EE: true

doc/user/enterprise_user/_index.md, after:

---
stage: Software Supply Chain Security
group: Authentication
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Enterprise users
description: Manage organization users through domain verification and centralized enterprise controls.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com

{{< /details >}}

Enterprise users are similar to standard GitLab users, but are administered by an organization.
Each enterprise user is claimed and managed by a specific top-level group. To claim enterprise
users, you must verify a group domain and have an active [subscription](../../subscriptions/_index.md).

If the subscription expires or is canceled:

- Any existing enterprise users remain enterprise users in the group.
- Group Owners cannot manage their enterprise users.
- Primary emails for user accounts must be from a verified domain.
- New enterprise users cannot be associated with the group until a subscription is renewed.

## Manage group domains

To claim GitLab.com users as enterprise users, you must add and verify ownership of a domain.
Group domains are added to the top-level group and apply to all subgroups and projects
in the group.

While each group can have multiple domains, you can associate each domain with only one group
at a time. If you move your domain to another paid group, all enterprise users are automatically
claimed by the new group.

Group domains are linked to a project in your top-level group. The linked project needs
[GitLab Pages](../project/pages/_index.md), but does not need to create a GitLab Pages website.
If GitLab Pages is turned off, you cannot verify the domain.

Even though the domain is linked to a project, it is available to the entire group hierarchy
including all nested subgroups and projects. Members in the linked project with
[at least the Maintainer role](../permissions.md#project-members-permissions) can modify or remove
the domain. If this project is deleted, your associated domains are also removed.

For more information on group domains, see [epic 5299](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/5299).

### Add group domains

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a top-level group.
- You must control a custom domain `example.com` or subdomain `subdomain.example.com` that matches the email domain you want to verify.
- You must be able to create DNS `TXT` records for your domain to prove ownership.
- You must have a dedicated project in the top-level group that uses
  [GitLab Pages](../project/pages/_index.md).

To add a custom domain for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
1. In the upper-right corner, select **Add Domain**.
1. Configure the domain settings:
   - **Domain**: Enter the domain name.
   - **Project**: Link to an existing project in the group.
   - **Certificate**: Select a certificate option:
     - If you do not have or do not want to use an SSL/TLS certificate, select
       **Automatic certificate management using Let's Encrypt**.
     - If you want to provide your own SSL/TLS certificate, select
       **Manually enter certificate information**. You can also add a certificate and key later.

        {{< alert type="note" >}}

        A valid certificate is not required for domain verification. You can ignore self-signed certificate warnings
        if you are not using GitLab Pages.

        {{< /alert >}}

1. Select **Add Domain**.
   GitLab saves the domain information.
1. Verify ownership of the domain:
   1. In **TXT**, copy the verification code.
   1. In your domain provider DNS settings, add the verification code as a `TXT` record.
   1. In GitLab, on the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
   1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
   1. Next to the domain name, select **Retry verification** ({{< icon name="retry" >}}).

After successful verification, the domain status changes to **Verified** and can be used for enterprise user management.

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Generally, DNS propagation completes in a few minutes, but can take up to 24 hours.
   Until it completes, the domain remains unverified in GitLab.

   If the domain is still unverified after seven days, GitLab automatically removes the domain.

   After verification, GitLab periodically reverifies the domain. To avoid potential issues,
   maintain the `TXT` record on your domain provider.

   {{< /alert >}}

### View group domains

To view all custom domains for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.

### Edit group domains

To edit a custom domain for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
1. Next to the domain name, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).

From here, you can:

- View the custom domain.
- View the DNS record to add.
- View the TXT verification entry.
- Retry verification.
- Edit the certificate settings.

### Delete group domains

Deleting a group domain can impact enterprise users in your group. After you delete the domain:

- Any existing enterprise users remain enterprise users in the group.
- Primary emails for user accounts must be from a verified domain.
- New enterprise users cannot be associated with the group until another domain is verified.

To delete a custom domain for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **Domain Verification**.
1. Next to the domain name, select **Remove domain** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}).
1. When prompted, select **Delete domain**.

## Manage enterprise users

In addition to the standard [group member permissions](../permissions.md#group-members-permissions),
Owners of a top-level group can also manage enterprise users in their group.

You can also [use the API](../../api/group_enterprise_users.md) to interact with enterprise users.

### Automatic claims of enterprise users

Prerequisites:

- The top-level group must [add and verify a group domain](#add-group-domains).
- The user account must meet at least one of the following conditions:
  - The user account was created on or after February 1, 2021.
  - The user account has a SAML or SCIM identity tied to the organization's group.
  - The user account has a `provisioned_by_group_id` attribute that matches the group ID.
  - The user account is already a member of the group subscription purchased or renewed on or after February 1, 2021.

After a group verifies ownership of a domain, users with an email address from a domain are
automatically claimed by the group as enterprise users. No direct action is needed from
group Owners.

Any existing group members with an email address from a different domain retain their existing
access, but can not be managed by group Owners. To claim these users, they must update their
primary email address to match your group domain.

The claim process can take up to four days to trigger. You can immediately run this process by manually [re-verifying the group domain](#edit-group-domains).

After a group claims an enterprise user:

- The user receives a [welcome email](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/app/views/notify/user_associated_with_enterprise_group_email.html.haml).
- The group ID is added to the user's `enterprise_group_id` attribute.

### Identifying enterprise users

You can identify enterprise users from the [members list](../group/_index.md#filter-and-sort-members-in-a-group).
All enterprise users have an `Enterprise` badge next to their names.

You can discover any non-enterprise group members by analyzing the list of billable users at:
`https://gitlab.com/groups/<group_id>/-/usage_quotas#seats-quota-tab`.

From this list, non-enterprise users have one of the following:

- An email address from a non-verified domain.
- No visible email address.

### Restrict authentication methods

You can restrict the specific authentication methods available to enterprise users, which can help
reduce the security footprint of your users.

- [Disable password authentication](../group/saml_sso/_index.md#disable-password-authentication-for-enterprise-users).
- [Disable personal access tokens](../../user/profile/personal_access_tokens.md#disable-personal-access-tokens-for-enterprise-users).
- [Disable SSH Keys](../../user/ssh.md#disable-ssh-keys-for-enterprise-users).
- [Disable two-factor authentication](../../security/two_factor_authentication.md#enterprise-users).

### Restrict group and project creation

You can restrict group and project creation for enterprise users, which helps you define:

- If enterprise users can create top-level groups.
- The maximum number of personal projects each enterprise user can create.

These restrictions are defined in the SAML response. For more information, see
[configure enterprise user settings from the SAML response](../group/saml_sso/_index.md#configure-enterprise-user-settings-from-saml-response).

### Bypass email confirmation for provisioned users

By default, users provisioned with SAML or SCIM are sent a verification email to verify their
identity. Instead, you can configure GitLab with a custom domain and GitLab automatically
confirms user accounts. Users still receive an enterprise user welcome email.

For more information, see [bypass user email confirmation with verified domains](../group/saml_sso/_index.md#bypass-user-email-confirmation-with-verified-domains).

### View the email addresses for an enterprise user

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a top-level group.

To view an enterprise user's email address:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project or group.
1. Select **Manage** > **Members**.
1. Hover over the enterprise user's name.

You can also use the [group and project members API](../../api/members.md)
to access users' information. For enterprise users of the group, this information
includes users' email addresses.

### Change the email addresses for an enterprise user

Enterprise users can follow the same process as other GitLab users to
[change their primary email address](../../user/profile/_index.md#change-your-primary-email).
The new email address must be from a verified domain. If your organization has no verified
domains, your enterprise users cannot change their primary email address.

Only GitLab support can change the primary email address to an email address from a
non-verified domain. This action [releases the enterprise user](#release-an-enterprise-user).

### Delete an enterprise user

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for the top-level group.

You can use the [group enterprise users API](../../api/group_enterprise_users.md#delete-an-enterprise-user)
to delete an enterprise user and permanently remove the account from GitLab. This action is different from
releasing the user which only removes the enterprise management features from the user. When you delete
the user, you can choose to either:

- Permanently delete the user and their
  [contributions](../../user/profile/account/delete_account.md#associated-records).
- Keep their contributions and transfer them to a system-wide ghost user account.

### Release an enterprise user

You can remove enterprise management features from a user account. You might need to
do this if, for example, a user wants to keep their GitLab account after leaving their
company. When you release a user, their account roles and permissions remain the same,
but the group Owner loses management options for that user. For example, the released
user can access authentication methods that the group Owner previously disabled.

If you need to permanently remove the account, [delete the user](#delete-an-enterprise-user)
instead.

To release the user, GitLab support must update the user's primary email address to an
email address from a non-verified domain. This action automatically releases the account.

Allowing group Owners to change primary emails is proposed in
[issue 412966](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/412966).

### Enable the Extension Marketplace for enterprise users

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/161819) as a [beta](../../policy/development_stages_support.md#beta) in GitLab 17.4 [with flags](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `web_ide_oauth` and `web_ide_extensions_marketplace`. Disabled by default.
- `web_ide_oauth` [enabled on GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, and GitLab Dedicated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/163181) in GitLab 17.4.
- `web_ide_extensions_marketplace` [enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/459028) in GitLab 17.4.
- `web_ide_oauth` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/167464) in GitLab 17.5.
- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/508996) the `vscode_extension_marketplace_settings` [feature flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) in GitLab 17.10. Disabled by default.
- `web_ide_extensions_marketplace` [enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184662), and `vscode_extension_marketplace_settings` [enabled on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/184662) in GitLab 17.11.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/192659) in GitLab 18.1. Feature flags `web_ide_extensions_marketplace` and `vscode_extension_marketplace_settings` removed.

{{< /history >}}

The VS Code Extension Marketplace provides access to extensions that enhance the functionality of the
Web IDE and Workspaces. Top-level group Owners can control access to the marketplace for enterprise
users in their group.

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role for a top-level group.

To enable the Extension Marketplace for enterprise users:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **General**.
1. Expand **Permissions and group features**.
1. Under **Web IDE and workspaces**, select the **Enable extension marketplace** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Troubleshooting

### Cannot disable two-factor authentication for an enterprise user

If a user does not have an **Enterprise** badge, a group Owner cannot disable or reset 2FA for their
account. Instead, the Owner should tell the enterprise user to consider available
[recovery options](../profile/account/two_factor_authentication_troubleshooting.md#recovery-options-and-2fa-reset).

## Related topics

- [GitLab Pages custom domains](../project/pages/custom_domains_ssl_tls_certification/_index.md).
