doc/user/project/repository/signed_commits/gpg.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Sign commits in your GitLab repository with GPG (GNU Privacy Guard) keys.
title: Sign commits with GPG
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

You can sign the commits you make in a GitLab repository with a
GPG ([GNU Privacy Guard](https://gnupg.org/)) key.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

GitLab uses the term GPG for all OpenPGP, PGP, and GPG-related material and
implementations.

{{< /alert >}}

For GitLab to consider a commit verified:

- The committer must have a GPG public/private key pair.
- The committer's public key must be uploaded to their GitLab account.
- One of the email addresses in the GPG public key must match a verified email address
  used by the committer in GitLab. To keep this address private, use the automatically generated
  [private commit email address](../../../profile/_index.md#use-an-automatically-generated-private-commit-email)
  GitLab provides in your profile.
- The committer's email address must match the verified email address from the
  GPG key.

GitLab uses its own keyring to verify the GPG signature. It does not access any
public key server.

GPG verified tags are not supported.

For more details about GPG, refer to the [related topics list](#related-topics).

## View a user's public GPG key

To view a user's public GPG key, you can either:

- Go to `https://gitlab.example.com/<USERNAME>.gpg`. GitLab displays the GPG key,
  if the user has configured one, or a blank page for users without a configured GPG key.
- Go to the user's profile (such as `https://gitlab.example.com/<USERNAME>`). In the upper-right corner
  of the user's profile, select **View public GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
  This button is shown only if the user has configured the key.

## Configure commit signing

To sign commits, you must configure both your local machine and your GitLab account:

1. [Create a GPG key](#create-a-gpg-key).
1. [Add a GPG key to your account](#add-a-gpg-key-to-your-account).
1. [Associate your GPG key with Git](#associate-your-gpg-key-with-git).
1. [Sign your Git commits](#sign-your-git-commits).

### Create a GPG key

If you don't already have a GPG key, create one:

1. [Install GPG](https://www.gnupg.org/download/) for your operating system.
   If your operating system has `gpg2` installed, replace `gpg` with `gpg2` in
   the commands on this page.
1. To generate your key pair, run the command appropriate for your version of `gpg`:

   ```shell
   # Use this command for the default version of GPG, including
   # Gpg4win on Windows, and most macOS versions:
   gpg --gen-key

   # Use this command for versions of GPG later than 2.1.17:
   gpg --full-gen-key
   ```

1. Select the algorithm your key should use, or press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to select
   the default option, `RSA and RSA`.
1. Select the key length, in bits. GitLab recommends 4096-bit keys.
1. Specify the validity period of your key. This value is subjective, and the
   default value is no expiration.
1. To confirm your answers, enter `y`.
1. Enter your name.
1. Enter your email address. It must match a
   [verified email address](../../../profile/_index.md#change-the-email-displayed-on-your-commits)
   in your GitLab account.
1. Optional. Enter a comment to display in parentheses after your name.
1. GPG displays the information you've entered so far. Edit the information or press
   <kbd>O</kbd> (for `Okay`) to continue.
1. Enter a strong password, then enter it again to confirm it.
1. To list your private GPG key, run this command, replacing
   `<EMAIL>` with the email address you used when you generated the key:

   ```shell
   gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format LONG <EMAIL>
   ```

1. In the output, identify the `sec` line, and copy the GPG key ID. It begins after
   the `/` character. In this example, the key ID is `30F2B65B9246B6CA`:

   ```plaintext
   sec   rsa4096/30F2B65B9246B6CA 2017-08-18 [SC]
         D5E4F29F3275DC0CDA8FFC8730F2B65B9246B6CA
   uid                   [ultimate] Mr. Robot <your_email>
   ssb   rsa4096/B7ABC0813E4028C0 2017-08-18 [E]
   ```

1. To show the associated public key, run this command, replacing `<ID>` with the
   GPG key ID from the previous step:

   ```shell
   gpg --armor --export <ID>
   ```

1. Copy the public key, including the `BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK` and
   `END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK` lines. You need this key in the next step.

### Add a GPG key to your account

To add a GPG key to your user settings:

1. Sign in to GitLab.
1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
1. Select **Add new key**.
1. In **Key**, paste your public key.
1. To add the key to your account, select **Add key**.

GitLab shows the key's fingerprint, email address, and creation date.

After you add a key, you cannot edit it. Instead, remove the offending key and re-add it.

### Associate your GPG key with Git

After you [create your GPG key](#create-a-gpg-key) and
[add it to your account](#add-a-gpg-key-to-your-account), you must configure Git
to use this key:

1. Run this command to list the private GPG key you just created,
   replacing `<EMAIL>` with the email address for your key:

   ```shell
   gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format LONG <EMAIL>
   ```

1. Copy the GPG private key ID that starts with `sec`. In this example, the private key ID is
   `30F2B65B9246B6CA`:

   ```plaintext
   sec   rsa4096/30F2B65B9246B6CA 2017-08-18 [SC]
         D5E4F29F3275DC0CDA8FFC8730F2B65B9246B6CA
   uid                   [ultimate] Mr. Robot <your_email>
   ssb   rsa4096/B7ABC0813E4028C0 2017-08-18 [E]
   ```

1. Run this command to configure Git to sign your commits with your key,
   replacing `<KEY ID>` with your GPG key ID:

   ```shell
   git config --global user.signingkey <KEY ID>
   ```

### Sign your Git commits

After you [add your public key to your account](#add-a-gpg-key-to-your-account),
you can sign individual commits manually, or configure Git to default to signed commits:

- Sign individual Git commits manually:
  1. Add `-S` flag to any commit you want to sign:

     ```shell
     git commit -S -m "My commit message"
     ```

  1. Enter the passphrase of your GPG key when asked.
  1. Push to GitLab and check that your commits [are verified](_index.md#verify-commits).
- Sign all Git commits by default by running this command:

  ```shell
  git config --global commit.gpgsign true
  ```

#### Set signing key conditionally

If you maintain signing keys for separate purposes, such as work and personal
use, use an `IncludeIf` statement in your `.gitconfig` file to set which key
you sign commits with.

Prerequisites:

- Requires Git version 2.13 or later.

1. In the same directory as your main `~/.gitconfig` file, create a second file,
   such as `.gitconfig-gitlab`.
1. In your main `~/.gitconfig` file, add your Git settings for work in non-GitLab projects.
1. Append this information to the end of your main `~/.gitconfig` file:

   ```ini
   # The contents of this file are included only for GitLab.com URLs
   [includeIf "hasconfig:remote.*.url:https://gitlab.com/**"]

   # Edit this line to point to your alternative configuration file
   path = ~/.gitconfig-gitlab
   ```

1. In your alternative `.gitconfig-gitlab` file, add the configuration overrides to
   use when you're committing to a GitLab repository. All settings from your
   main `~/.gitconfig` file are retained unless you explicitly override them.
   In this example,

   ```ini
   # Alternative ~/.gitconfig-gitlab file
   # These values are used for repositories matching the string 'gitlab.com',
   # and override their corresponding values in ~/.gitconfig

   [user]
   email = you@example.com
   signingkey = <KEY ID>

   [commit]
   gpgsign = true
   ```

## Revoke a GPG key

If a GPG key becomes compromised, revoke it. Revoking a key changes both future and past commits:

- Past commits signed by this key are marked as unverified.
- Future commits signed by this key are marked as unverified.

To revoke a GPG key:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
1. Select **Revoke** next to the GPG key you want to delete.

## Remove a GPG key

When you remove a GPG key from your GitLab account:

- Previous commits signed with this key remain verified.
- Future commits (including any commits created but not yet pushed) that attempt
  to use this key are unverified.

To remove a GPG key from your account:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
1. Select **Remove** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}) next to the GPG key you want to delete.

If you must unverify both future and past commits,
[revoke the associated GPG key](#revoke-a-gpg-key) instead.

## Related topics

- [Configure commit signing for commits made in the web UI](../../../../administration/gitaly/configure_gitaly.md#configure-commit-signing-for-gitlab-ui-commits)
- GPG resources:
  - [Git Tools - Signing Your Work](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Signing-Your-Work)
  - [Managing OpenPGP Keys](https://riseup.net/en/security/message-security/openpgp/gpg-keys)
  - [OpenPGP Best Practices](https://riseup.net/en/security/message-security/openpgp/best-practices)
  - [Creating a new GPG key with subkeys](https://www.void.gr/kargig/blog/2013/12/02/creating-a-new-gpg-key-with-subkeys/) (advanced)
  - [View GPG keys in your instance](../../../../administration/credentials_inventory.md#view-gpg-keys)
  - [Beyond Identity integration](../../integrations/beyond_identity.md)

## Troubleshooting

### Secret key not available

If you receive the errors `secret key not available`
or `gpg: signing failed: secret key not available`, try using `gpg2` instead of `gpg`:

```shell
git config --global gpg.program gpg2
```

If your GPG key is password protected and the password entry prompt does not appear,
add `export GPG_TTY=$(tty)` to your shell's `rc` file (commonly `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`)

### GPG fails to sign data

If your GPG key is password protected, and you receive one of the following errors:

```plaintext
error: gpg failed to sign the data
fatal: failed to write commit object
gpg: signing failed: Inappropriate ioctl for device
```

If the password entry prompt doesn't appear:

1. Open your shell's configuration file, commonly `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`, in a text editor.
1. Add the following line to the file:

   ```shell
   export GPG_TTY=$(tty)
   ```

1. Save the file and exit the text editor.
1. Apply the changes. Choose one of the following:

   - Restart your terminal.
   - Run `source ~/.bashrc` or `source ~/.zshrc`.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

The exact steps may vary depending on your operating system and shell configuration.

{{< /alert >}}

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/user/project/repository/signed_commits/gpg.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Sign commits in your GitLab repository with GPG (GNU Privacy Guard) keys.
title: Sign commits with GPG
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

You can sign the commits you make in a GitLab repository with a
GPG ([GNU Privacy Guard](https://gnupg.org/)) key.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

GitLab uses the term GPG for all OpenPGP, PGP, and GPG-related material and
implementations.

{{< /alert >}}

For GitLab to consider a commit verified:

- The committer must have a GPG public/private key pair.
- The committer's public key must be uploaded to their GitLab account.
- One of the email addresses in the GPG public key must match a verified email address
  used by the committer in GitLab. To keep this address private, use the automatically generated
  [private commit email address](../../../profile/_index.md#use-an-automatically-generated-private-commit-email)
  GitLab provides in your profile.
- The committer's email address must match the verified email address from the
  GPG key.

GitLab uses its own keyring to verify the GPG signature. It does not access any
public key server.

GPG verified tags are not supported.

For more details about GPG, refer to the [related topics list](#related-topics).

## View a user's public GPG key

To view a user's public GPG key, you can either:

- Go to `https://gitlab.example.com/<USERNAME>.gpg`. GitLab displays the GPG key,
  if the user has configured one, or a blank page for users without a configured GPG key.
- Go to the user's profile (such as `https://gitlab.example.com/<USERNAME>`). In the upper-right corner
  of the user's profile, select **View public GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
  This button is shown only if the user has configured the key.

## Configure commit signing

To sign commits, you must configure both your local machine and your GitLab account:

1. [Create a GPG key](#create-a-gpg-key).
1. [Add a GPG key to your account](#add-a-gpg-key-to-your-account).
1. [Associate your GPG key with Git](#associate-your-gpg-key-with-git).
1. [Sign your Git commits](#sign-your-git-commits).

### Create a GPG key

If you don't already have a GPG key, create one:

1. [Install GPG](https://www.gnupg.org/download/) for your operating system.
   If your operating system has `gpg2` installed, replace `gpg` with `gpg2` in
   the commands on this page.
1. To generate your key pair, run the command appropriate for your version of `gpg`:

   ```shell
   # Use this command for the default version of GPG, including
   # Gpg4win on Windows, and most macOS versions:
   gpg --gen-key

   # Use this command for versions of GPG later than 2.1.17:
   gpg --full-gen-key
   ```

1. Select the algorithm your key should use, or press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to select
   the default option, `RSA and RSA`.
1. Select the key length, in bits. GitLab recommends 4096-bit keys.
1. Specify the validity period of your key. This value is subjective, and the
   default value is no expiration.
1. To confirm your answers, enter `y`.
1. Enter your name.
1. Enter your email address. It must match a
   [verified email address](../../../profile/_index.md#change-the-email-displayed-on-your-commits)
   in your GitLab account.
1. Optional. Enter a comment to display in parentheses after your name.
1. GPG displays the information you've entered so far. Edit the information or press
   <kbd>O</kbd> (for `Okay`) to continue.
1. Enter a strong password, then enter it again to confirm it.
1. To list your private GPG key, run this command, replacing
   `<EMAIL>` with the email address you used when you generated the key:

   ```shell
   gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format LONG <EMAIL>
   ```

1. In the output, identify the `sec` line, and copy the GPG key ID. It begins after
   the `/` character. In this example, the key ID is `30F2B65B9246B6CA`:

   ```plaintext
   sec   rsa4096/30F2B65B9246B6CA 2017-08-18 [SC]
         D5E4F29F3275DC0CDA8FFC8730F2B65B9246B6CA
   uid                   [ultimate] Mr. Robot <your_email>
   ssb   rsa4096/B7ABC0813E4028C0 2017-08-18 [E]
   ```

1. To show the associated public key, run this command, replacing `<ID>` with the
   GPG key ID from the previous step:

   ```shell
   gpg --armor --export <ID>
   ```

1. Copy the public key, including the `BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK` and
   `END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK` lines. You need this key in the next step.

### Add a GPG key to your account

To add a GPG key to your user settings:

1. Sign in to GitLab.
1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
1. Select **Add new key**.
1. In **Key**, paste your public key.
1. To add the key to your account, select **Add key**.

GitLab shows the key's fingerprint, email address, and creation date.

After you add a key, you cannot edit it. Instead, remove the offending key and re-add it.

### Associate your GPG key with Git

After you [create your GPG key](#create-a-gpg-key) and
[add it to your account](#add-a-gpg-key-to-your-account), you must configure Git
to use this key:

1. Run this command to list the private GPG key you just created,
   replacing `<EMAIL>` with the email address for your key:

   ```shell
   gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format LONG <EMAIL>
   ```

1. Copy the GPG private key ID that starts with `sec`. In this example, the private key ID is
   `30F2B65B9246B6CA`:

   ```plaintext
   sec   rsa4096/30F2B65B9246B6CA 2017-08-18 [SC]
         D5E4F29F3275DC0CDA8FFC8730F2B65B9246B6CA
   uid                   [ultimate] Mr. Robot <your_email>
   ssb   rsa4096/B7ABC0813E4028C0 2017-08-18 [E]
   ```

1. Run this command to configure Git to sign your commits with your key,
   replacing `<KEY ID>` with your GPG key ID:

   ```shell
   git config --global user.signingkey <KEY ID>
   ```

### Sign your Git commits

After you [add your public key to your account](#add-a-gpg-key-to-your-account),
you can sign individual commits manually, or configure Git to default to signed commits:

- Sign individual Git commits manually:
  1. Add `-S` flag to any commit you want to sign:

     ```shell
     git commit -S -m "My commit message"
     ```

  1. Enter the passphrase of your GPG key when asked.
  1. Push to GitLab and check that your commits [are verified](_index.md#verify-commits).
- Sign all Git commits by default by running this command:

  ```shell
  git config --global commit.gpgsign true
  ```

#### Set signing key conditionally

If you maintain signing keys for separate purposes, such as work and personal
use, use an `IncludeIf` statement in your `.gitconfig` file to set which key
you sign commits with.

Prerequisites:

- Requires Git version 2.13 or later.

1. In the same directory as your main `~/.gitconfig` file, create a second file,
   such as `.gitconfig-gitlab`.
1. In your main `~/.gitconfig` file, add your Git settings for work in non-GitLab projects.
1. Append this information to the end of your main `~/.gitconfig` file:

   ```ini
   # The contents of this file are included only for GitLab.com URLs
   [includeIf "hasconfig:remote.*.url:https://gitlab.com/**"]

   # Edit this line to point to your alternative configuration file
   path = ~/.gitconfig-gitlab
   ```

1. In your alternative `.gitconfig-gitlab` file, add the configuration overrides to
   use when you're committing to a GitLab repository. All settings from your
   main `~/.gitconfig` file are retained unless you explicitly override them.
   In this example,

   ```ini
   # Alternative ~/.gitconfig-gitlab file
   # These values are used for repositories matching the string 'gitlab.com',
   # and override their corresponding values in ~/.gitconfig

   [user]
   email = you@example.com
   signingkey = <KEY ID>

   [commit]
   gpgsign = true
   ```

## Revoke a GPG key

If a GPG key becomes compromised, revoke it. Revoking a key changes both future and past commits:

- Past commits signed by this key are marked as unverified.
- Future commits signed by this key are marked as unverified.

To revoke a GPG key:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
1. Select **Revoke** next to the GPG key you want to delete.

## Remove a GPG key

When you remove a GPG key from your GitLab account:

- Previous commits signed with this key remain verified.
- Future commits (including any commits created but not yet pushed) that attempt
  to use this key are unverified.

To remove a GPG key from your account:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../../../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. Select **Edit profile**.
1. Select **GPG keys** ({{< icon name="key" >}}).
1. Select **Remove** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}) next to the GPG key you want to delete.

If you must unverify both future and past commits,
[revoke the associated GPG key](#revoke-a-gpg-key) instead.

## Related topics

- [Configure commit signing for commits made in the web UI](../../../../administration/gitaly/configure_gitaly.md#configure-commit-signing-for-gitlab-ui-commits)
- GPG resources:
  - [Git Tools - Signing Your Work](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Signing-Your-Work)
  - [Managing OpenPGP Keys](https://riseup.net/en/security/message-security/openpgp/gpg-keys)
  - [OpenPGP Best Practices](https://riseup.net/en/security/message-security/openpgp/best-practices)
  - [Creating a new GPG key with subkeys](https://www.void.gr/kargig/blog/2013/12/02/creating-a-new-gpg-key-with-subkeys/) (advanced)
  - [View GPG keys in your instance](../../../../administration/credentials_inventory.md#view-gpg-keys)
  - [Beyond Identity integration](../../integrations/beyond_identity.md)

## Troubleshooting

### Secret key not available

If you receive the errors `secret key not available`
or `gpg: signing failed: secret key not available`, try using `gpg2` instead of `gpg`:

```shell
git config --global gpg.program gpg2
```

If your GPG key is password protected and the password entry prompt does not appear,
add `export GPG_TTY=$(tty)` to your shell's `rc` file (commonly `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`)

### GPG fails to sign data

If your GPG key is password protected, and you receive one of the following errors:

```plaintext
error: gpg failed to sign the data
fatal: failed to write commit object
gpg: signing failed: Inappropriate ioctl for device
```

If the password entry prompt doesn't appear:

1. Open your shell's configuration file, commonly `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`, in a text editor.
1. Add the following line to the file:

   ```shell
   export GPG_TTY=$(tty)
   ```

1. Save the file and exit the text editor.
1. Apply the changes. Choose one of the following:

   - Restart your terminal.
   - Run `source ~/.bashrc` or `source ~/.zshrc`.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

The exact steps may vary depending on your operating system and shell configuration.

{{< /alert >}}
