doc/subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md, before:

---
stage: Fulfillment
group: Seat Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Discover GitLab Duo subscription add-ons and assign seats.
title: GitLab Duo add-ons
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Changed to include GitLab Duo Core add-on in GitLab 18.0.
- GitLab Duo Chat (Classic) in the UI [added to Core](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/201721) in GitLab 18.3.
- [Added ability to disable seat assignment emails on self-managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/557290)
  in GitLab 18.4.

{{< /history >}}

GitLab Duo add-ons extend your Premium or Ultimate subscription with AI-native features.
Use GitLab Duo to help accelerate development workflows, reduce repetitive coding tasks,
and gain deeper insights across your projects.

Three add-ons are available: GitLab Duo Core, Pro, and Enterprise.

Each add-on provides access to
[a set of GitLab Duo features](../user/gitlab_duo/feature_summary.md).

## GitLab Duo Core

GitLab Duo Core is included automatically if you have:

- GitLab 18.0 or later.
- A Premium or Ultimate subscription.

If you are a customer with an offline license, GitLab Duo Core is not available on
GitLab Duo Self-Hosted because GitLab Duo Core requires connection to the GitLab AI gateway.

If you are a customer with an online license, you can use GitLab Duo Core in combination with
GitLab Duo Self-Hosted, but to enable GitLab Duo Core you must select the GitLab AI vendor model
for GitLab Duo Chat and Code Suggestions for the entire instance.

If you are an existing customer from GitLab 17.11 or earlier, you must [turn on Web or IDE features](../user/gitlab_duo/turn_on_off.md#turn-gitlab-duo-core-on-or-off) to start using GitLab Duo Core.

If you are a new customer in GitLab 18.0 or later, GitLab Duo Core features are automatically turned on and no further action is needed.

Users assigned the following roles have access to GitLab Duo Core:

- Reporter
- Developer
- Maintainer
- Owner

### GitLab Duo Core limits

Usage limits, along with [the GitLab Terms of Service](https://about.gitlab.com/terms/),
apply to Premium and Ultimate customers' use of the included Code Suggestions and GitLab Duo Chat features.

GitLab will provide 30 days prior notice before enforcement of these limits take effect.
At that time, organization administrators will have tools to monitor and manage consumption and will be able
to purchase additional capacity.

| Feature          | Requests per user per month |
|------------------|-----------------------------|
| Code Suggestions | 2,000                       |
| GitLab Duo Chat  | 100                         |

Limits do not apply to GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise.

## GitLab Duo Pro and Enterprise

GitLab Duo Pro and Enterprise require you to purchase seats and assign them to team members.
The seat-based model gives you control over feature access and cost management
based on your specific team needs.

## Purchase GitLab Duo

To purchase GitLab Duo Enterprise, contact the
[GitLab Sales team](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/gitlab-duo-pro/sales/).

To purchase seats for GitLab Duo Pro, use the Customers Portal or
contact the [GitLab Sales team](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/gitlab-duo-pro/sales/).

To use the portal:

1. Sign in to the [GitLab Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/).
1. On the subscription card, select the vertical ellipsis ({{< icon name="ellipsis_v" >}}).
1. Select **Buy GitLab Duo Pro**.
1. Enter the number of seats for GitLab Duo.
1. Review the **Purchase summary** section.
1. From the **Payment method** dropdown list, select your payment method.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.

## Purchase additional GitLab Duo seats

You can purchase additional GitLab Duo Pro or GitLab Duo Enterprise seats for your group namespace or GitLab Self-Managed instance. After you complete the purchase, the seats are added to the total number of GitLab Duo seats in your subscription.

Prerequisites:

- You must purchase the GitLab Duo Pro or GitLab Duo Enterprise add-on.

### For GitLab.com

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.
1. In the Customers Portal, in the **Add additional seats** field, enter the number of seats. The amount
   cannot be higher than the number of seats in the subscription associated with your group namespace.
1. In the **Billing information** section, select the payment method from the dropdown list.
1. Select the **Privacy Policy** and **Terms of Service** checkbox.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.
1. Select the **GitLab SaaS** tab and refresh the page.

### For GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.

1. Sign in to the [GitLab Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/).
1. On the **GitLab Duo Pro** section of your subscription card select **Add seats**.
1. Enter the number of seats. The amount cannot be higher than the number of seats in the subscription.
1. Review the **Purchase summary** section.
1. From the **Payment method** dropdown list, select your payment method.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.

## Assign GitLab Duo seats

Prerequisites:

- You must purchase a GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise add-on, or have an active GitLab Duo trial.
- For GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated:
  - The GitLab Duo Pro add-on is available in GitLab 16.8 and later.
  - The GitLab Duo Enterprise add-on is only available in GitLab 17.3 and later.

After you purchase GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise, you can assign seats to users to grant access to the add-on.

### For GitLab.com

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role.

To use GitLab Duo features in any project or group, you must assign the user to a seat in at least one top-level group.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. To the right of the user, turn on the toggle to assign a GitLab Duo seat.

The user is sent a confirmation email.

### For GitLab Self-Managed

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **GitLab Duo**.
   - If the **GitLab Duo** menu item is not available, synchronize your subscription
     after purchase:
     1. On the left sidebar, select **Subscription**.
     1. In **Subscription details**, to the right of **Last sync**, select
        synchronize subscription ({{< icon name="retry" >}}).
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. To the right of the user, turn on the toggle to assign a GitLab Duo seat.

The user is sent a confirmation email.

- To disable this email, set the `sm_duo_seat_assignment_email` feature flag to `false`.
  This flag is enabled by default.

After you assign seats,
[ensure GitLab Duo is set up for your GitLab Self-Managed instance](../user/gitlab_duo/setup.md).

## Assign and remove GitLab Duo seats in bulk

You can assign or remove seats in bulk for multiple users.

### SAML Group Sync

GitLab.com groups can use SAML Group Sync to [manage GitLab Duo seat assignments](../user/group/saml_sso/group_sync.md#manage-gitlab-duo-seat-assignment).

### For GitLab.com

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. On the bottom right, you can adjust the page display to show **50** or **100** items to increase the number of users available for selection.
1. Select the users to assign or remove seats for:
   - To select multiple users, to the left of each user, select the checkbox.
   - To select all, select the checkbox at the top of the table.
1. Assign or remove seats:
   - To assign seats, select **Assign seat**, then **Assign seats** to confirm.
   - To remove users from seats, select **Remove seat**, then **Remove seats** to confirm.

### For GitLab Self-Managed

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.
- You must have GitLab 17.5 or later.

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **GitLab Duo**.
1. On the bottom right, you can adjust the page display to show **50** or **100** items to increase the number of users available for selection.
1. Select the users to assign or remove seats for:
   - To select multiple users, to the left of each user, select the checkbox.
   - To select all, select the checkbox at the top of the table.
1. Assign or remove seats:
   - To assign seats, select **Assign seat**, then **Assign seats** to confirm.
   - To remove users from seats, select **Remove seat**, then **Remove seats** to confirm.
1. To the right of the user, turn on the toggle to assign a GitLab Duo seat.

Administrators of GitLab Self-Managed instances can also use a [Rake task](../administration/raketasks/user_management.md#bulk-assign-users-to-gitlab-duo) to assign or remove seats in bulk.

#### Managing GitLab Duo seats with LDAP configuration

You can automatically assign and remove GitLab Duo seats for LDAP-enabled users based on LDAP group membership.

To enable this functionality, you must [configure the `duo_add_on_groups` property](../administration/auth/ldap/ldap_synchronization.md#gitlab-duo-add-on-for-groups) in your LDAP settings.

When `duo_add_on_groups` is configured, it becomes the single source of truth for Duo seat management among LDAP-enabled users.
For more information, see [seat assignment workflow](../administration/duo_add_on_seat_management_with_ldap.md#seat-management-workflow).

This automated process ensures that Duo seats are efficiently allocated based on your organization's LDAP group structure.
For more information, see [GitLab Duo add-on seat management with LDAP](../administration/duo_add_on_seat_management_with_ldap.md).

## View assigned GitLab Duo users

{{< history >}}

- Last GitLab Duo activity field [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/455761) in GitLab 18.0.

{{< /history >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must purchase a GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise add-on, or have an active GitLab Duo trial.

After you purchase GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise, you can assign seats to users to
grant access to the add-on. Then you can view details of assigned GitLab Duo users.

The GitLab Duo seat utilization page shows the following information for each user:

- User's full name and username
- Seat assignment status
- Public email address: The user's email displayed on their public profile.
- Last GitLab activity: The date the user last performed any action in GitLab.
- Last GitLab Duo activity: The date the user last used GitLab Duo features. Refreshes on any GitLab Duo activity.

These fields use data from the `AddOnUser` type in the [GraphQL API](../api/graphql/reference/_index.md#addonuser).

### For GitLab.com

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. From the filter bar, select **Assigned seat** and **Yes**.
1. User list is filtered to only users assigned a GitLab Duo seat.

### For GitLab Self-Managed

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.
- You must have GitLab 17.5 or later.

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **GitLab Duo**.
   - If the **GitLab Duo** menu item is not available, synchronize your subscription
     after purchase:
     1. On the left sidebar, select **Subscription**.
     1. In **Subscription details**, to the right of **Last sync**, select
        synchronize subscription ({{< icon name="retry" >}}).
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. To filter by users assigned to a GitLab Duo seat, in the **Filter users** bar, select **Assigned seat**, then select **Yes**.
1. User list is filtered to only users assigned a GitLab Duo seat.

## Automatic seat removal

GitLab Duo add-on seats are removed automatically to ensure only eligible users have access. This
happens when there are:

- Seat overages
- Blocked, banned, and deactivated users

### At subscription expiration

If your subscription containing the GitLab Duo add-on expires, seat assignments are retained for 28 days. If the subscription is renewed, or a new subscription containing GitLab Duo is purchased during this 28-day window, users will be automatically re-assigned.
Otherwise, seat assignments are removed and users must be reassigned.

### For seat overages

If your quantity of purchased GitLab Duo add-on seats is reduced, seat assignments are automatically removed to match the seat quantity available in the subscription.

For example:

- You have a 50 seat GitLab Duo Pro subscription with all seats assigned.
- You renew the subscription for 30 seats. The 20 users over subscription are automatically removed from GitLab Duo Pro seat assignment.
- If only 20 users were assigned a GitLab Duo Pro seat before renewal, then no removal of seats would occur.

Seats are selected for removal based on the following criteria, in this order:

1. Users who have not yet used Code Suggestions, ordered by most recently assigned.
1. Users who have used Code Suggestions, ordered by least recent usage of Code Suggestions.

### For blocked, banned and deactivated users

Once or twice each day, a CronJob reviews GitLab Duo seat assignments. If a user who is assigned a GitLab Duo seat becomes
blocked, banned, or deactivated, their access to GitLab Duo features is automatically removed.

After the seat has been removed, it becomes available and can be re-assigned to a new user.

## Troubleshooting

### Unable to use the UI to assign seats to your users

On the **Usage quotas** page, if you experience both of the following, you will be unable to use the UI to assign seats to your users:

- The **Seats** tab does not load.
- The following error message is displayed:

  ```plaintext
  An error occurred while loading billable members list.
  ```

As a workaround, you can use the GraphQL queries in [this snippet](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/snippets/3763094) to assign seats to users.

Commit message:

Separating out GitLab Duo Self-Hosted

doc/subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md, after:

---
stage: Fulfillment
group: Seat Management
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Discover GitLab Duo subscription add-ons and assign seats.
title: GitLab Duo add-ons
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Changed to include GitLab Duo Core add-on in GitLab 18.0.
- GitLab Duo Chat (Classic) in the UI [added to Core](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/201721) in GitLab 18.3.
- [Added ability to disable seat assignment emails on self-managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/557290)
  in GitLab 18.4.

{{< /history >}}

GitLab Duo add-ons extend your Premium or Ultimate subscription with AI-native features.
Use GitLab Duo to help accelerate development workflows, reduce repetitive coding tasks,
and gain deeper insights across your projects.

Three add-ons are available: GitLab Duo Core, Pro, and Enterprise.

Each add-on provides access to
[a set of GitLab Duo features](../user/gitlab_duo/feature_summary.md).

## GitLab Duo Core

GitLab Duo Core is included automatically if you have:

- GitLab 18.0 or later.
- A Premium or Ultimate subscription.

If you are an existing customer from GitLab 17.11 or earlier,
you must [turn on Web or IDE features](../user/gitlab_duo/turn_on_off.md#turn-gitlab-duo-core-on-or-off) to start using GitLab Duo Core.

If you are a new customer in GitLab 18.0 or later, GitLab Duo Core features are automatically turned on and no further action is needed.

To view which roles can access GitLab Duo Core, see [GitLab Duo group permissions](../user/permissions.md#gitlab-duo-group-permissions).

### GitLab Duo Self-Hosted

If you are a customer with an offline license, GitLab Duo Core is not available on
GitLab Duo Self-Hosted because GitLab Duo Core requires connection to the GitLab AI gateway.

If you are a customer with an online license, you can use GitLab Duo Core in combination with
GitLab Duo Self-Hosted, but to enable GitLab Duo Core you must select the GitLab AI vendor model
for GitLab Duo Chat and Code Suggestions for the entire instance.

### GitLab Duo Core limits

Usage limits, along with [the GitLab Terms of Service](https://about.gitlab.com/terms/),
apply to Premium and Ultimate customers' use of the included Code Suggestions and GitLab Duo Chat features.

GitLab will provide 30 days prior notice before enforcement of these limits take effect.
At that time, organization administrators will have tools to monitor and manage consumption and will be able
to purchase additional capacity.

| Feature          | Requests per user per month |
|------------------|-----------------------------|
| Code Suggestions | 2,000                       |
| GitLab Duo Chat  | 100                         |

Limits do not apply to GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise.

## GitLab Duo Pro and Enterprise

GitLab Duo Pro and Enterprise require you to purchase seats and assign them to team members.
The seat-based model gives you control over feature access and cost management
based on your specific team needs.

## Purchase GitLab Duo

To purchase GitLab Duo Enterprise, contact the
[GitLab Sales team](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/gitlab-duo-pro/sales/).

To purchase seats for GitLab Duo Pro, use the Customers Portal or
contact the [GitLab Sales team](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/gitlab-duo-pro/sales/).

To use the portal:

1. Sign in to the [GitLab Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/).
1. On the subscription card, select the vertical ellipsis ({{< icon name="ellipsis_v" >}}).
1. Select **Buy GitLab Duo Pro**.
1. Enter the number of seats for GitLab Duo.
1. Review the **Purchase summary** section.
1. From the **Payment method** dropdown list, select your payment method.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.

## Purchase additional GitLab Duo seats

You can purchase additional GitLab Duo Pro or GitLab Duo Enterprise seats for your group namespace or GitLab Self-Managed instance. After you complete the purchase, the seats are added to the total number of GitLab Duo seats in your subscription.

Prerequisites:

- You must purchase the GitLab Duo Pro or GitLab Duo Enterprise add-on.

### For GitLab.com

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.
1. In the Customers Portal, in the **Add additional seats** field, enter the number of seats. The amount
   cannot be higher than the number of seats in the subscription associated with your group namespace.
1. In the **Billing information** section, select the payment method from the dropdown list.
1. Select the **Privacy Policy** and **Terms of Service** checkbox.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.
1. Select the **GitLab SaaS** tab and refresh the page.

### For GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.

1. Sign in to the [GitLab Customers Portal](https://customers.gitlab.com/).
1. On the **GitLab Duo Pro** section of your subscription card select **Add seats**.
1. Enter the number of seats. The amount cannot be higher than the number of seats in the subscription.
1. Review the **Purchase summary** section.
1. From the **Payment method** dropdown list, select your payment method.
1. Select **Purchase seats**.

## Assign GitLab Duo seats

Prerequisites:

- You must purchase a GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise add-on, or have an active GitLab Duo trial.
- For GitLab Self-Managed and GitLab Dedicated:
  - The GitLab Duo Pro add-on is available in GitLab 16.8 and later.
  - The GitLab Duo Enterprise add-on is only available in GitLab 17.3 and later.

After you purchase GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise, you can assign seats to users to grant access to the add-on.

### For GitLab.com

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role.

To use GitLab Duo features in any project or group, you must assign the user to a seat in at least one top-level group.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. To the right of the user, turn on the toggle to assign a GitLab Duo seat.

The user is sent a confirmation email.

### For GitLab Self-Managed

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **GitLab Duo**.
   - If the **GitLab Duo** menu item is not available, synchronize your subscription
     after purchase:
     1. On the left sidebar, select **Subscription**.
     1. In **Subscription details**, to the right of **Last sync**, select
        synchronize subscription ({{< icon name="retry" >}}).
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. To the right of the user, turn on the toggle to assign a GitLab Duo seat.

The user is sent a confirmation email.

- To disable this email, set the `sm_duo_seat_assignment_email` feature flag to `false`.
  This flag is enabled by default.

After you assign seats,
[ensure GitLab Duo is set up for your GitLab Self-Managed instance](../user/gitlab_duo/setup.md).

## Assign and remove GitLab Duo seats in bulk

You can assign or remove seats in bulk for multiple users.

### SAML Group Sync

GitLab.com groups can use SAML Group Sync to [manage GitLab Duo seat assignments](../user/group/saml_sso/group_sync.md#manage-gitlab-duo-seat-assignment).

### For GitLab.com

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. On the bottom right, you can adjust the page display to show **50** or **100** items to increase the number of users available for selection.
1. Select the users to assign or remove seats for:
   - To select multiple users, to the left of each user, select the checkbox.
   - To select all, select the checkbox at the top of the table.
1. Assign or remove seats:
   - To assign seats, select **Assign seat**, then **Assign seats** to confirm.
   - To remove users from seats, select **Remove seat**, then **Remove seats** to confirm.

### For GitLab Self-Managed

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.
- You must have GitLab 17.5 or later.

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **GitLab Duo**.
1. On the bottom right, you can adjust the page display to show **50** or **100** items to increase the number of users available for selection.
1. Select the users to assign or remove seats for:
   - To select multiple users, to the left of each user, select the checkbox.
   - To select all, select the checkbox at the top of the table.
1. Assign or remove seats:
   - To assign seats, select **Assign seat**, then **Assign seats** to confirm.
   - To remove users from seats, select **Remove seat**, then **Remove seats** to confirm.
1. To the right of the user, turn on the toggle to assign a GitLab Duo seat.

Administrators of GitLab Self-Managed instances can also use a [Rake task](../administration/raketasks/user_management.md#bulk-assign-users-to-gitlab-duo) to assign or remove seats in bulk.

#### Managing GitLab Duo seats with LDAP configuration

You can automatically assign and remove GitLab Duo seats for LDAP-enabled users based on LDAP group membership.

To enable this functionality, you must [configure the `duo_add_on_groups` property](../administration/auth/ldap/ldap_synchronization.md#gitlab-duo-add-on-for-groups) in your LDAP settings.

When `duo_add_on_groups` is configured, it becomes the single source of truth for Duo seat management among LDAP-enabled users.
For more information, see [seat assignment workflow](../administration/duo_add_on_seat_management_with_ldap.md#seat-management-workflow).

This automated process ensures that Duo seats are efficiently allocated based on your organization's LDAP group structure.
For more information, see [GitLab Duo add-on seat management with LDAP](../administration/duo_add_on_seat_management_with_ldap.md).

## View assigned GitLab Duo users

{{< history >}}

- Last GitLab Duo activity field [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/455761) in GitLab 18.0.

{{< /history >}}

Prerequisites:

- You must purchase a GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise add-on, or have an active GitLab Duo trial.

After you purchase GitLab Duo Pro or Enterprise, you can assign seats to users to
grant access to the add-on. Then you can view details of assigned GitLab Duo users.

The GitLab Duo seat utilization page shows the following information for each user:

- User's full name and username
- Seat assignment status
- Public email address: The user's email displayed on their public profile.
- Last GitLab activity: The date the user last performed any action in GitLab.
- Last GitLab Duo activity: The date the user last used GitLab Duo features. Refreshes on any GitLab Duo activity.

These fields use data from the `AddOnUser` type in the [GraphQL API](../api/graphql/reference/_index.md#addonuser).

### For GitLab.com

Prerequisites:

- You must have the Owner role.

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings** > **GitLab Duo**.
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. From the filter bar, select **Assigned seat** and **Yes**.
1. User list is filtered to only users assigned a GitLab Duo seat.

### For GitLab Self-Managed

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator.
- You must have GitLab 17.5 or later.

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin**.
1. Select **GitLab Duo**.
   - If the **GitLab Duo** menu item is not available, synchronize your subscription
     after purchase:
     1. On the left sidebar, select **Subscription**.
     1. In **Subscription details**, to the right of **Last sync**, select
        synchronize subscription ({{< icon name="retry" >}}).
1. By **Seat utilization**, select **Assign seats**.
1. To filter by users assigned to a GitLab Duo seat, in the **Filter users** bar, select **Assigned seat**, then select **Yes**.
1. User list is filtered to only users assigned a GitLab Duo seat.

## Automatic seat removal

GitLab Duo add-on seats are removed automatically to ensure only eligible users have access. This
happens when there are:

- Seat overages
- Blocked, banned, and deactivated users

### At subscription expiration

If your subscription containing the GitLab Duo add-on expires, seat assignments are retained for 28 days. If the subscription is renewed, or a new subscription containing GitLab Duo is purchased during this 28-day window, users will be automatically re-assigned.
Otherwise, seat assignments are removed and users must be reassigned.

### For seat overages

If your quantity of purchased GitLab Duo add-on seats is reduced, seat assignments are automatically removed to match the seat quantity available in the subscription.

For example:

- You have a 50 seat GitLab Duo Pro subscription with all seats assigned.
- You renew the subscription for 30 seats. The 20 users over subscription are automatically removed from GitLab Duo Pro seat assignment.
- If only 20 users were assigned a GitLab Duo Pro seat before renewal, then no removal of seats would occur.

Seats are selected for removal based on the following criteria, in this order:

1. Users who have not yet used Code Suggestions, ordered by most recently assigned.
1. Users who have used Code Suggestions, ordered by least recent usage of Code Suggestions.

### For blocked, banned and deactivated users

Once or twice each day, a CronJob reviews GitLab Duo seat assignments. If a user who is assigned a GitLab Duo seat becomes
blocked, banned, or deactivated, their access to GitLab Duo features is automatically removed.

After the seat has been removed, it becomes available and can be re-assigned to a new user.

## Troubleshooting

### Unable to use the UI to assign seats to your users

On the **Usage quotas** page, if you experience both of the following, you will be unable to use the UI to assign seats to your users:

- The **Seats** tab does not load.
- The following error message is displayed:

  ```plaintext
  An error occurred while loading billable members list.
  ```

As a workaround, you can use the GraphQL queries in [this snippet](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/snippets/3763094) to assign seats to users.
