doc/administration/auth/smartcard.md, before:

---
stage: Software Supply Chain Security
group: Authentication
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Smart card authentication
description: Authenticate using hardware devices for certificate-based login.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

GitLab supports authentication using smart cards.

## Existing password authentication

By default, existing users can continue to sign in with a username and password when smart card
authentication is enabled.

To force existing users to use only smart card authentication,
[disable username and password authentication](../settings/sign_in_restrictions.md#password-authentication-enabled).

## Authentication methods

GitLab supports two authentication methods:

- X.509 certificates with local databases.
- LDAP servers.

### Authentication against a local database with X.509 certificates

{{< details >}}

- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

Smart cards with X.509 certificates can be used to authenticate with GitLab.

To use a smart card with an X.509 certificate to authenticate against a local
database with GitLab, `CN` and `emailAddress` must be defined in the
certificate. For example:

```plaintext
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 1 (0x0)
        Serial Number: 12856475246677808609 (0xb26b601ecdd555e1)
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O=Random Corp Ltd, CN=Random Corp
        Validity
            Not Before: Oct 30 12:00:00 2018 GMT
            Not After : Oct 30 12:00:00 2019 GMT
        Subject: CN=Gitlab User, emailAddress=gitlab-user@example.com
```

### Authentication against a local database with X.509 certificates and SAN extension

{{< details >}}

- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

Smart cards with X.509 certificates using SAN extensions can be used to authenticate
with GitLab.

To use a smart card with an X.509 certificate to authenticate against a local
database with GitLab:

- At least one of the `subjectAltName` (SAN) extensions
  must define the user identity (`email`) within the GitLab instance (`URI`).
- The `URI` must match `Gitlab.config.host.gitlab`.
- If your certificate contains only **one** SAN email entry, you don't need to
  add or modify it to match the `email` with the `URI`.

For example:

```plaintext
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 1 (0x0)
        Serial Number: 12856475246677808609 (0xb26b601ecdd555e1)
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O=Random Corp Ltd, CN=Random Corp
        Validity
            Not Before: Oct 30 12:00:00 2018 GMT
            Not After : Oct 30 12:00:00 2019 GMT
        ...
        X509v3 extensions:
            X509v3 Key Usage:
                Key Encipherment, Data Encipherment
            X509v3 Extended Key Usage:
                TLS Web Server Authentication
            X509v3 Subject Alternative Name:
                email:gitlab-user@example.com, URI:http://gitlab.example.com/
```

### Authentication against an LDAP server

{{< details >}}

- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

GitLab implements a standard way of certificate matching following
[RFC4523](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4523). It uses the
`certificateExactMatch` certificate matching rule against the `userCertificate`
attribute. As a prerequisite, you must use an LDAP server that:

- Supports the `certificateExactMatch` matching rule.
- Has the certificate stored in the `userCertificate` attribute.

### Authentication against an Active Directory LDAP server

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/328074) in GitLab 16.9.
- [Added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/514025) `reverse_issuer_and_subject` and `reverse_issuer_and_serial_number` formats in GitLab 17.11.

{{< /history >}}

Active Directory does not support the `certificateExactMatch` rule or the `userCertificate` attribute. Most tools for certificate-based authentication such as smart cards use the `altSecurityIdentities` attribute, which can contain multiple certificates for each user. The data in the field must match [one of the formats Microsoft recommends](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/authentication/concept-certificate-based-authentication-certificateuserids#supported-patterns-for-certificate-user-ids).

Use the following attributes to customize the field GitLab checks and the format for certificate data:

- `smartcard_ad_cert_field` - specify the name of the field to search. This can be any attribute on a user object.
- `smartcard_ad_cert_format` - specify the format of the information gathered from the certificate. This format must be one of the following values. The most common is
  `issuer_and_serial_number` to match the behavior of non-Active Directory LDAP servers.

| `smartcard_ad_cert_format` | Example data                                                 |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `principal_name`           | `X509:<PN>alice@example.com`                                 |
| `rfc822_name`              | `X509:<RFC822>bob@example.com`                               |
| `subject`                  | `X509:<S>DC=com,DC=example,OU=UserAccounts,CN=dennis`        |
| `issuer_and_serial_number` | `X509:<I>DC=com,DC=example,CN=CONTOSO-DC-CA<SR>1181914561`   |
| `issuer_and_subject`       | `X509:<I>DC=com,DC=example,CN=EXAMPLE-DC-CA<S>DC=com,DC=example,OU=UserAccounts,CN=cynthia` |
| `reverse_issuer_and_serial_number` | `X509:<I>CN=CONTOSO-DC-CA,DC=example,DC=com<SR>1181914561`   |
| `reverse_issuer_and_subject`   | `X509:<I>CN=EXAMPLE-DC-CA,DC=example,DC=com<S>DC=com,DC=example,OU=UserAccounts,CN=cynthia` |

For `issuer_and_serial_number`, the `<SR>` portion is in reverse-byte-order, with the least-significant byte first. For more information, see [how to map a user to a certificate using the altSecurityIdentities attribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/spatdsg/howto-map-a-user-to-a-certificate-via-all-the-methods-available-in-the-altsecurityidentities-attribute).

The reverse issuer formats sort the issuer string from the smallest unit to the largest. Some
Active Directory servers store certificates in this format.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

If no `smartcard_ad_cert_format` is specified, but an LDAP server is configured with `active_directory: true` and smart cards enabled, GitLab defaults to the behavior of 16.8 and earlier, and uses `certificateExactMatch` on the `userCertificate` attribute.

{{< /alert >}}

### Authentication against Entra ID Domain Services

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/328074) in GitLab 16.9.

{{< /history >}}

[Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/whatis), formerly known as Azure Active Directory, provides a cloud-based directory for companies and organizations. [Entra Domain Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/domain-services/overview) provides a secure read-only LDAP interface to the directory, but only exposes a limited subset of the fields Entra ID has.

Entra ID uses the `CertificateUserIds` field to manage client certificates for users, but this field is not exposed in LDAP / Entra ID Domain Services. With a cloud-only setup, it is not possible for GitLab to authenticate users' smart cards using LDAP.

In a hybrid on-premise and cloud environment, entities are synced between the on-premise Active Directory controller and the cloud Entra ID using [Entra Connect](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/hybrid/connect/whatis-azure-ad-connect-v2). If you are [syncing your `altSecurityIdentities` attribute to `certificateUserIds` in Entra ID using Entra ID Connect](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/authentication/concept-certificate-based-authentication-certificateuserids#update-certificateuserids-using-microsoft-entra-connect), you can expose this data in LDAP / Entra ID Domain Services so it can be authenticated by GitLab:

1. Add a rule to Entra ID Connect to sync the `altSecurityIdentities` to an additional attribute in Entra ID.
1. Enable that extra attribute as an [extension attribute in Entra ID Domain Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/domain-services/concepts-custom-attributes).
1. Configure the `smartcard_ad_cert_field` field in GitLab to use this extension attribute.

## Configure GitLab for smart card authentication

For Linux package installations:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   # Allow smart card authentication
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_enabled'] = true

   # Path to a file containing a CA certificate
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_ca_file'] = "/etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem"

   # Host and port where the client side certificate is requested by the
   # webserver (NGINX/Apache)
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_host'] = "smartcard.example.com"
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_port'] = 3444
   ```

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Assign a value to at least one of the following variables:
   `gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_host']` or
   `gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_port']`.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Configure NGINX to request a client side certificate

   In NGINX configuration, an **additional** server context must be defined with
   the same configuration except:

   - The additional NGINX server context must be configured to run on a different
     port:

     ```plaintext
     listen *:3444 ssl;
     ```

   - It can also be configured to run on a different hostname:

     ```plaintext
     listen smartcard.example.com:443 ssl;
     ```

   - The additional NGINX server context must be configured to require the client
     side certificate:

     ```plaintext
     ssl_verify_depth 2;
     ssl_client_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem;
     ssl_verify_client on;
     ```

   - The additional NGINX server context must be configured to forward the client
     side certificate:

     ```plaintext
     proxy_set_header    X-SSL-Client-Certificate    $ssl_client_escaped_cert;
     ```

   For example, the following is an example server context in an NGINX
   configuration file (such as in `/etc/nginx/sites-available/gitlab-ssl`):

   ```plaintext
   server {
       listen smartcard.example.com:3443 ssl;

       # certificate for configuring SSL
       ssl_certificate /path/to/example.com.crt;
       ssl_certificate_key /path/to/example.com.key;

       ssl_verify_depth 2;
       # CA certificate for client side certificate verification
       ssl_client_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem;
       ssl_verify_client on;

       location / {
           proxy_set_header    Host                        $http_host;
           proxy_set_header    X-Real-IP                   $remote_addr;
           proxy_set_header    X-Forwarded-For             $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
           proxy_set_header    X-Forwarded-Proto           $scheme;
           proxy_set_header    Upgrade                     $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header    Connection                  $connection_upgrade;

           proxy_set_header    X-SSL-Client-Certificate    $ssl_client_escaped_cert;

           proxy_read_timeout 300;

           proxy_pass http://gitlab-workhorse;
       }
   }
   ```

1. Edit `config/gitlab.yml`:

   ```yaml
   ## Smart card authentication settings
   smartcard:
     # Allow smart card authentication
     enabled: true

     # Path to a file containing a CA certificate
     ca_file: '/etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem'

     # Host and port where the client side certificate is requested by the
     # webserver (NGINX/Apache)
     client_certificate_required_host: smartcard.example.com
     client_certificate_required_port: 3443
   ```

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Assign a value to at least one of the following variables:
   `client_certificate_required_host` or `client_certificate_required_port`.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Additional steps when using SAN extensions

For Linux package installations:

1. Add to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_san_extensions'] = true
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Add the `san_extensions` line to `config/gitlab.yml` within the smart card section:

   ```yaml
   smartcard:
      enabled: true
      ca_file: '/etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem'
      client_certificate_required_port: 3444

      # Enable the use of SAN extensions to match users with certificates
      san_extensions: true
   ```

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Additional steps when authenticating against an LDAP server

For Linux package installations:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['ldap_servers'] = YAML.load <<-EOS
   main:
     # snip...
     # Enable smart card authentication against the LDAP server. Valid values
     # are "false", "optional", and "required".
     smartcard_auth: optional

     # If your LDAP server is Active Directory, you can configure these two fields.
     # Specify which field contains certificate information, 'altSecurityIdentities' by default
     smartcard_ad_cert_field: altSecurityIdentities

     # Specify format of certificate information. Valid values are:
     # principal_name, rfc822_name, issuer_and_subject, subject, issuer_and_serial_number
     smartcard_ad_cert_format: issuer_and_serial_number
   EOS
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Edit `config/gitlab.yml`:

   ```yaml
   production:
     ldap:
       servers:
         main:
           # snip...
           # Enable smart card authentication against the LDAP server. Valid values
           # are "false", "optional", and "required".
           smartcard_auth: optional

           # If your LDAP server is Active Directory, you can configure these two fields.
           # Specify which field contains certificate information, 'altSecurityIdentities' by default
           smartcard_ad_cert_field: altSecurityIdentities

           # Specify format of certificate information. Valid values are:
           # principal_name, rfc822_name, issuer_and_subject, subject, issuer_and_serial_number
           smartcard_ad_cert_format: issuer_and_serial_number
   ```

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Require browser session with smart card sign-in for Git access

For Linux package installations:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_required_for_git_access'] = true
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Edit `config/gitlab.yml`:

   ```yaml
   ## Smart card authentication settings
   smartcard:
     # snip...
     # Browser session with smart card sign-in is required for Git access
     required_for_git_access: true
   ```

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

## Passwords for users created via smart card authentication

The [Generated passwords for users created through integrated authentication](../../security/passwords_for_integrated_authentication_methods.md) guide provides an overview of how GitLab generates and sets passwords for users created via smart card authentication.

Commit message:

Fix LDAP Smartcard subject formatting
Fixes LDAP smartcard subject to be formatted with `,` instead of `/` as
in the raw certificate subject info.

Changelog: fixed

Co-authored-by: @ParkerMc parkermc@parkermc.net

doc/administration/auth/smartcard.md, after:

---
stage: Software Supply Chain Security
group: Authentication
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Smart card authentication
description: Authenticate using hardware devices for certificate-based login.
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

GitLab supports authentication using smart cards.

## Existing password authentication

By default, existing users can continue to sign in with a username and password when smart card
authentication is enabled.

To force existing users to use only smart card authentication,
[disable username and password authentication](../settings/sign_in_restrictions.md#password-authentication-enabled).

## Authentication methods

GitLab supports two authentication methods:

- X.509 certificates with local databases.
- LDAP servers.

### Authentication against a local database with X.509 certificates

{{< details >}}

- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

Smart cards with X.509 certificates can be used to authenticate with GitLab.

To use a smart card with an X.509 certificate to authenticate against a local
database with GitLab, `CN` and `emailAddress` must be defined in the
certificate. For example:

```plaintext
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 1 (0x0)
        Serial Number: 12856475246677808609 (0xb26b601ecdd555e1)
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O=Random Corp Ltd, CN=Random Corp
        Validity
            Not Before: Oct 30 12:00:00 2018 GMT
            Not After : Oct 30 12:00:00 2019 GMT
        Subject: CN=Gitlab User, emailAddress=gitlab-user@example.com
```

### Authentication against a local database with X.509 certificates and SAN extension

{{< details >}}

- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

Smart cards with X.509 certificates using SAN extensions can be used to authenticate
with GitLab.

To use a smart card with an X.509 certificate to authenticate against a local
database with GitLab:

- At least one of the `subjectAltName` (SAN) extensions
  must define the user identity (`email`) within the GitLab instance (`URI`).
- The `URI` must match `Gitlab.config.host.gitlab`.
- If your certificate contains only **one** SAN email entry, you don't need to
  add or modify it to match the `email` with the `URI`.

For example:

```plaintext
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 1 (0x0)
        Serial Number: 12856475246677808609 (0xb26b601ecdd555e1)
    Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: O=Random Corp Ltd, CN=Random Corp
        Validity
            Not Before: Oct 30 12:00:00 2018 GMT
            Not After : Oct 30 12:00:00 2019 GMT
        ...
        X509v3 extensions:
            X509v3 Key Usage:
                Key Encipherment, Data Encipherment
            X509v3 Extended Key Usage:
                TLS Web Server Authentication
            X509v3 Subject Alternative Name:
                email:gitlab-user@example.com, URI:http://gitlab.example.com/
```

### Authentication against an LDAP server

{{< details >}}

- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

GitLab implements a standard way of certificate matching following
[RFC4523](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4523). It uses the
`certificateExactMatch` certificate matching rule against the `userCertificate`
attribute. As a prerequisite, you must use an LDAP server that:

- Supports the `certificateExactMatch` matching rule.
- Has the certificate stored in the `userCertificate` attribute.

### Authentication against an Active Directory LDAP server

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/328074) in GitLab 16.9.
- [Added](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/514025) `reverse_issuer_and_subject` and `reverse_issuer_and_serial_number` formats in GitLab 17.11.
- `issuer_and_subject`, `reverse_issuer_and_subject`, and `subject` formats [updated](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/208209) in GitLab 18.6 [with a flag](../feature_flags/_index.md) named `smartcard_ad_formats_v2`. Enabled by default. Disable this flag to revert these formats to the previous versions.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The functionality of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

Active Directory does not support the `certificateExactMatch` rule or the `userCertificate` attribute. Most tools for certificate-based authentication such as smart cards use the `altSecurityIdentities` attribute, which can contain multiple certificates for each user. The data in the field must match [one of the formats Microsoft recommends](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/authentication/concept-certificate-based-authentication-certificateuserids#supported-patterns-for-certificate-user-ids).

Use the following attributes to customize the field GitLab checks and the format for certificate data:

- `smartcard_ad_cert_field` - specify the name of the field to search. This can be any attribute on a user object.
- `smartcard_ad_cert_format` - specify the format of the information gathered from the certificate. This format must be one of the following values. The most common is
  `issuer_and_serial_number` to match the behavior of non-Active Directory LDAP servers.

| `smartcard_ad_cert_format` | Example data                                                 |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `principal_name`           | `X509:<PN>alice@example.com`                                 |
| `rfc822_name`              | `X509:<RFC822>bob@example.com`                               |
| `subject`                  | `X509:<S>CN=dennis,OU=UserAccounts,DC=example,DC=com`        |
| `issuer_and_serial_number` | `X509:<I>CN=CONTOSO-DC-CA,DC=example,DC=com<SR>1181914561`   |
| `issuer_and_subject`       | `X509:<I>CN=EXAMPLE-DC-CA,DC=example,DC=com<S>CN=cynthia,OU=UserAccounts,DC=example,DC=com` |
| `reverse_issuer_and_serial_number` | `X509:<I>DC=com,DC=example,CN=CONTOSO-DC-CA<SR>1181914561`   |
| `reverse_issuer_and_subject`   | `X509:<I>DC=com,DC=example,CN=CONTOSO-DC-CA<S>CN=cynthia,OU=UserAccounts,DC=example,DC=com` |
| `reverse_issuer_and_reverse_subject`   | `X509:<I>DC=com,DC=example,CN=CONTOSO-DC-CA<S>DC=com,DC=example,OU=UserAccounts,CN=cynthia` |

For `issuer_and_serial_number`, the `<SR>` portion is in reverse-byte-order, with the least-significant byte first. For more information, see [how to map a user to a certificate using the altSecurityIdentities attribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/archive/blogs/spatdsg/howto-map-a-user-to-a-certificate-via-all-the-methods-available-in-the-altsecurityidentities-attribute).

The reverse issuer formats sort the issuer string from the smallest unit to the largest. Some
Active Directory servers store certificates in this format.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

If no `smartcard_ad_cert_format` is specified, but an LDAP server is configured with `active_directory: true` and smart cards enabled, GitLab defaults to the behavior of 16.8 and earlier, and uses `certificateExactMatch` on the `userCertificate` attribute.

{{< /alert >}}

### Authentication against Entra ID Domain Services

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/328074) in GitLab 16.9.

{{< /history >}}

[Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/whatis), formerly known as Azure Active Directory, provides a cloud-based directory for companies and organizations. [Entra Domain Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/domain-services/overview) provides a secure read-only LDAP interface to the directory, but only exposes a limited subset of the fields Entra ID has.

Entra ID uses the `CertificateUserIds` field to manage client certificates for users, but this field is not exposed in LDAP / Entra ID Domain Services. With a cloud-only setup, it is not possible for GitLab to authenticate users' smart cards using LDAP.

In a hybrid on-premise and cloud environment, entities are synced between the on-premise Active Directory controller and the cloud Entra ID using [Entra Connect](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/hybrid/connect/whatis-azure-ad-connect-v2). If you are [syncing your `altSecurityIdentities` attribute to `certificateUserIds` in Entra ID using Entra ID Connect](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/authentication/concept-certificate-based-authentication-certificateuserids#update-certificateuserids-using-microsoft-entra-connect), you can expose this data in LDAP / Entra ID Domain Services so it can be authenticated by GitLab:

1. Add a rule to Entra ID Connect to sync the `altSecurityIdentities` to an additional attribute in Entra ID.
1. Enable that extra attribute as an [extension attribute in Entra ID Domain Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/domain-services/concepts-custom-attributes).
1. Configure the `smartcard_ad_cert_field` field in GitLab to use this extension attribute.

## Configure GitLab for smart card authentication

For Linux package installations:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   # Allow smart card authentication
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_enabled'] = true

   # Path to a file containing a CA certificate
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_ca_file'] = "/etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem"

   # Host and port where the client side certificate is requested by the
   # webserver (NGINX/Apache)
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_host'] = "smartcard.example.com"
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_port'] = 3444
   ```

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Assign a value to at least one of the following variables:
   `gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_host']` or
   `gitlab_rails['smartcard_client_certificate_required_port']`.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Configure NGINX to request a client side certificate

   In NGINX configuration, an **additional** server context must be defined with
   the same configuration except:

   - The additional NGINX server context must be configured to run on a different
     port:

     ```plaintext
     listen *:3444 ssl;
     ```

   - It can also be configured to run on a different hostname:

     ```plaintext
     listen smartcard.example.com:443 ssl;
     ```

   - The additional NGINX server context must be configured to require the client
     side certificate:

     ```plaintext
     ssl_verify_depth 2;
     ssl_client_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem;
     ssl_verify_client on;
     ```

   - The additional NGINX server context must be configured to forward the client
     side certificate:

     ```plaintext
     proxy_set_header    X-SSL-Client-Certificate    $ssl_client_escaped_cert;
     ```

   For example, the following is an example server context in an NGINX
   configuration file (such as in `/etc/nginx/sites-available/gitlab-ssl`):

   ```plaintext
   server {
       listen smartcard.example.com:3443 ssl;

       # certificate for configuring SSL
       ssl_certificate /path/to/example.com.crt;
       ssl_certificate_key /path/to/example.com.key;

       ssl_verify_depth 2;
       # CA certificate for client side certificate verification
       ssl_client_certificate /etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem;
       ssl_verify_client on;

       location / {
           proxy_set_header    Host                        $http_host;
           proxy_set_header    X-Real-IP                   $remote_addr;
           proxy_set_header    X-Forwarded-For             $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
           proxy_set_header    X-Forwarded-Proto           $scheme;
           proxy_set_header    Upgrade                     $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header    Connection                  $connection_upgrade;

           proxy_set_header    X-SSL-Client-Certificate    $ssl_client_escaped_cert;

           proxy_read_timeout 300;

           proxy_pass http://gitlab-workhorse;
       }
   }
   ```

1. Edit `config/gitlab.yml`:

   ```yaml
   ## Smart card authentication settings
   smartcard:
     # Allow smart card authentication
     enabled: true

     # Path to a file containing a CA certificate
     ca_file: '/etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem'

     # Host and port where the client side certificate is requested by the
     # webserver (NGINX/Apache)
     client_certificate_required_host: smartcard.example.com
     client_certificate_required_port: 3443
   ```

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   Assign a value to at least one of the following variables:
   `client_certificate_required_host` or `client_certificate_required_port`.

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Additional steps when using SAN extensions

For Linux package installations:

1. Add to `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_san_extensions'] = true
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Add the `san_extensions` line to `config/gitlab.yml` within the smart card section:

   ```yaml
   smartcard:
      enabled: true
      ca_file: '/etc/ssl/certs/CA.pem'
      client_certificate_required_port: 3444

      # Enable the use of SAN extensions to match users with certificates
      san_extensions: true
   ```

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Additional steps when authenticating against an LDAP server

For Linux package installations:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['ldap_servers'] = YAML.load <<-EOS
   main:
     # snip...
     # Enable smart card authentication against the LDAP server. Valid values
     # are "false", "optional", and "required".
     smartcard_auth: optional

     # If your LDAP server is Active Directory, you can configure these two fields.
     # Specify which field contains certificate information, 'altSecurityIdentities' by default
     smartcard_ad_cert_field: altSecurityIdentities

     # Specify format of certificate information. Valid values are:
     # principal_name, rfc822_name, issuer_and_subject, subject, issuer_and_serial_number
     smartcard_ad_cert_format: issuer_and_serial_number
   EOS
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Edit `config/gitlab.yml`:

   ```yaml
   production:
     ldap:
       servers:
         main:
           # snip...
           # Enable smart card authentication against the LDAP server. Valid values
           # are "false", "optional", and "required".
           smartcard_auth: optional

           # If your LDAP server is Active Directory, you can configure these two fields.
           # Specify which field contains certificate information, 'altSecurityIdentities' by default
           smartcard_ad_cert_field: altSecurityIdentities

           # Specify format of certificate information. Valid values are:
           # principal_name, rfc822_name, issuer_and_subject, subject, issuer_and_serial_number
           smartcard_ad_cert_format: issuer_and_serial_number
   ```

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

### Require browser session with smart card sign-in for Git access

For Linux package installations:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['smartcard_required_for_git_access'] = true
   ```

1. Save the file and [reconfigure](../restart_gitlab.md#reconfigure-a-linux-package-installation)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

For self-compiled installations:

1. Edit `config/gitlab.yml`:

   ```yaml
   ## Smart card authentication settings
   smartcard:
     # snip...
     # Browser session with smart card sign-in is required for Git access
     required_for_git_access: true
   ```

1. Save the file and [restart](../restart_gitlab.md#self-compiled-installations)
   GitLab for the changes to take effect.

## Passwords for users created via smart card authentication

The [Generated passwords for users created through integrated authentication](../../security/passwords_for_integrated_authentication_methods.md) guide provides an overview of how GitLab generates and sets passwords for users created via smart card authentication.
