doc/administration/geo/glossary.md, before:

---
stage: Systems
group: Geo
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Geo glossary
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

We are updating the Geo documentation, user interface and commands to reflect these changes. Not all pages comply with
these definitions yet.

{{< /alert >}}

 These are the defined terms to describe all aspects of Geo. Using a set of clearly
 defined terms helps us to communicate efficiently and avoids confusion. The language
 on this page aims to be [ubiquitous](https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/communication/#ubiquitous-language)
 and [as simple as possible](https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/communication/#simple-language).

 We provide example diagrams and statements to demonstrate correct usage of terms.

| Term                   | Definition                                                                                                                                                                                | Scope        | Discouraged synonyms                            |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Node                   | An individual server that runs GitLab either with a specific role or as a whole (for example a Rails application node). In a cloud context this can be a specific machine type.           | GitLab       | instance, server                                |
| Site                   | One or a collection of nodes running a single GitLab application. A site can be single-node or multi-node.                                                                                | GitLab       | deployment, installation instance               |
| Single-node site       | A specific configuration of GitLab that uses exactly one node.                                                                                                                            | GitLab       | single-server, single-instance                  |
| Multi-node site        | A specific configuration of GitLab that uses more than one node.                                                                                                                          | GitLab       | multi-server, multi-instance, high availability |
| Primary site           | A GitLab site whose data is being replicated by at least one secondary site. There can only be a single primary site.                                                                     | Geo-specific | Geo deployment, Primary node                    |
| Secondary site         | A GitLab site that is configured to replicate the data of a primary site. There can be one or more secondary sites.                                                                       | Geo-specific | Geo deployment, Secondary node                  |
| Geo deployment         | A collection of two or more GitLab sites with exactly one primary site being replicated by one or more secondary sites.                                                                   | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Reference architecture | A [specified configuration of GitLab based on Requests per Second or user count](../reference_architectures/_index.md), possibly including multiple nodes and multiple sites.                                   | GitLab       |                                                 |
| Promoting              | Changing the role of a site from secondary to primary.                                                                                                                                    | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Demoting               | Changing the role of a site from primary to secondary.                                                                                                                                    | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Failover               | The entire process that shifts users from a primary Site to a secondary site. This includes promoting a secondary, but contains other parts as well. For example, scheduling maintenance. | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Replication            | Also called "synchronization". The uni-directional process that updates a resource on a secondary site to match the resource on the primary site. | Geo-specific | |
| Verification           | The process of comparing the data that exist on a primary site to the data replicated to a secondary site. Used to ensure integrity of replicated data. | Geo-specific | |
| Unified URL            | A single external URL used for all Geo sites. Allows requests to be routed to either the primary Geo site or any secondary Geo sites. | Geo-specific | |
| Geo proxying           | A mechanism where secondary Geo sites transparently forward operations to the primary site, except for certain operations that can be handled locally by the secondary sites. | Geo-specific | |

## Examples

### Single-node site

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph S-Site[Single-node site]
    Node_3[GitLab node]
  end
```

### Multi-node site

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph MN-Site[Multi-node site]
    Node_1[Application node]
    Node_2[Database node]
    Node_3[Gitaly node]
  end
```

### Geo deployment - Single-node sites

This Geo deployment has a single-node primary site, a single-node secondary site:

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph Geo deployment
   subgraph Primary[Primary site, single-node]
    Node_1[GitLab node]
  end
  subgraph Secondary1[Secondary site 1, single-node]
    Node_2[GitLab node]
   end
   end
```

### Geo deployment - Multi-node sites

This Geo deployment has a multi-node primary site, a multi-node secondary site:

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph Geo deployment
   subgraph Primary[Primary site, multi-node]
    Node_1[Application node]
    Node_2[Database node]
  end
  subgraph Secondary1[Secondary site 1, multi-node]
    Node_5[Application node]
    Node_6[Database node]
   end
   end
```

### Geo deployment - Mixed sites

This Geo deployment has a multi-node primary site, a multi-node secondary site and another single-node secondary site:

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph Geo deployment
   subgraph Primary[Primary site, multi-node]
    Node_1[Application node]
    Node_2[Database node]
    Node_3[Gitaly node]
  end
  subgraph Secondary1[Secondary site 1, multi-node]
    Node_5[Application node]
    Node_6[Database node]
   end
  subgraph Secondary2[Secondary site 2, single-node]
    Node_7[Single GitLab node]
   end
   end
```

Commit message:

Rename usage of file to blob in Geo
Changelog: other
EE: true

doc/administration/geo/glossary.md, after:

---
stage: Systems
group: Geo
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Geo glossary
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

We are updating the Geo documentation, user interface and commands to reflect these changes. Not all pages comply with
these definitions yet.

{{< /alert >}}

 These are the defined terms to describe all aspects of Geo. Using a set of clearly
 defined terms helps us to communicate efficiently and avoids confusion. The language
 on this page aims to be [ubiquitous](https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/communication/#ubiquitous-language)
 and [as simple as possible](https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/communication/#simple-language).

 We provide example diagrams and statements to demonstrate correct usage of terms.

| Term                   | Definition                                                                                                                                                                                | Scope        | Discouraged synonyms                            |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Node                   | An individual server that runs GitLab either with a specific role or as a whole (for example a Rails application node). In a cloud context this can be a specific machine type.           | GitLab       | instance, server                                |
| Site                   | One or a collection of nodes running a single GitLab application. A site can be single-node or multi-node.                                                                                | GitLab       | deployment, installation instance               |
| Single-node site       | A specific configuration of GitLab that uses exactly one node.                                                                                                                            | GitLab       | single-server, single-instance                  |
| Multi-node site        | A specific configuration of GitLab that uses more than one node.                                                                                                                          | GitLab       | multi-server, multi-instance, high availability |
| Primary site           | A GitLab site whose data is being replicated by at least one secondary site. There can only be a single primary site.                                                                     | Geo-specific | Geo deployment, Primary node                    |
| Secondary site         | A GitLab site that is configured to replicate the data of a primary site. There can be one or more secondary sites.                                                                       | Geo-specific | Geo deployment, Secondary node                  |
| Geo deployment         | A collection of two or more GitLab sites with exactly one primary site being replicated by one or more secondary sites.                                                                   | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Reference architecture | A [specified configuration of GitLab based on Requests per Second or user count](../reference_architectures/_index.md), possibly including multiple nodes and multiple sites.             | GitLab       |                                                 |
| Promoting              | Changing the role of a site from secondary to primary.                                                                                                                                    | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Demoting               | Changing the role of a site from primary to secondary.                                                                                                                                    | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Failover               | The entire process that shifts users from a primary Site to a secondary site. This includes promoting a secondary, but contains other parts as well. For example, scheduling maintenance. | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Replication            | Also called "synchronization". The uni-directional process that updates a resource on a secondary site to match the resource on the primary site.                                         | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Verification           | The process of comparing the data that exist on a primary site to the data replicated to a secondary site. Used to ensure integrity of replicated data.                                   | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Unified URL            | A single external URL used for all Geo sites. Allows requests to be routed to either the primary Geo site or any secondary Geo sites.                                                     | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Geo proxying           | A mechanism where secondary Geo sites transparently forward operations to the primary site, except for certain operations that can be handled locally by the secondary sites.             | Geo-specific |                                                 |
| Blob                   | Geo-related data type which can be replicated to cover various GitLab components.                                                                                                         | Geo-specific | file                                            |

## Examples

### Single-node site

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph S-Site[Single-node site]
    Node_3[GitLab node]
  end
```

### Multi-node site

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph MN-Site[Multi-node site]
    Node_1[Application node]
    Node_2[Database node]
    Node_3[Gitaly node]
  end
```

### Geo deployment - Single-node sites

This Geo deployment has a single-node primary site, a single-node secondary site:

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph Geo deployment
   subgraph Primary[Primary site, single-node]
    Node_1[GitLab node]
  end
  subgraph Secondary1[Secondary site 1, single-node]
    Node_2[GitLab node]
   end
   end
```

### Geo deployment - Multi-node sites

This Geo deployment has a multi-node primary site, a multi-node secondary site:

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph Geo deployment
   subgraph Primary[Primary site, multi-node]
    Node_1[Application node]
    Node_2[Database node]
  end
  subgraph Secondary1[Secondary site 1, multi-node]
    Node_5[Application node]
    Node_6[Database node]
   end
   end
```

### Geo deployment - Mixed sites

This Geo deployment has a multi-node primary site, a multi-node secondary site and another single-node secondary site:

```mermaid
 graph TD
   subgraph Geo deployment
   subgraph Primary[Primary site, multi-node]
    Node_1[Application node]
    Node_2[Database node]
    Node_3[Gitaly node]
  end
  subgraph Secondary1[Secondary site 1, multi-node]
    Node_5[Application node]
    Node_6[Database node]
   end
  subgraph Secondary2[Secondary site 2, single-node]
    Node_7[Single GitLab node]
   end
   end
```
