doc/administration/gitlab_duo_self_hosted/supported_llm_serving_platforms.md, before:

---
stage: AI-Powered
group: Custom Models
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Supported LLM Serving Platforms.
title: GitLab Duo Self-Hosted supported platforms
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate with GitLab Duo Enterprise - [Start a GitLab Duo Enterprise trial on a paid Ultimate subscription](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/gitlab-duo-pro/sales/?type=free-trial)
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12972) in GitLab 17.1 [with a flag](../feature_flags.md) named `ai_custom_model`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/15176) in GitLab 17.6.
- Changed to require GitLab Duo add-on in GitLab 17.6 and later.
- Feature flag `ai_custom_model` removed in GitLab 17.8
- Generally available in GitLab 17.9

{{< /history >}}

There are multiple platforms available to host your self-hosted Large Language Models (LLMs). Each platform has unique features and benefits that can cater to different needs. The following documentation summarises the currently supported options:

## For self-hosted model deployments

### vLLM

[vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/index.html) is a high-performance inference server optimized for serving LLMs with memory efficiency. It supports model parallelism and integrates easily with existing workflows.

To install vLLM, see the [vLLM Installation Guide](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html). You should install [version v0.6.4.post1](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/releases/tag/v0.6.4.post1) or later.

#### Endpoint Configuration

When configuring the endpoint URL for any OpenAI API compatible platforms (such as vLLM) in GitLab:

- The URL must be suffixed with `/v1`
- If using the default vLLM configuration, the endpoint URL would be `https://<hostname>:8000/v1`
- If your server is configured behind a proxy or load balancer, you might not need to specify the port, in which case the URL would be `https://<hostname>/v1`

#### Finding the model name

After the model has been deployed, you can obtain the model name for the model identifier field in GitLab by querying the vLLM server's `/v1/models` endpoint:

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer API_KEY" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  http://your-vllm-server:8000/v1/models
```

The model name is the value of the `data.id` field in the response.

Example response:

```json
{
  "object": "list",
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1",
      "object": "model",
      "created": 1739421415,
      "owned_by": "vllm",
      "root": "mistralai/Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1",
      // Additional fields removed for readability
    }
  ]
}
```

In this example, if the model's `id` is `Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1`, you would set the model identifier in GitLab as `custom_openai/Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1`.

For more information on:

- vLLM supported models, see the [vLLM Supported Models documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/models/supported_models.html).
- Available options when using vLLM to run a model, see the [vLLM documentation on engine arguments](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/stable/usage/engine_args.html).
- The hardware needed for the models, see the [Supported models and Hardware requirements documentation](supported_models_and_hardware_requirements.md).

Examples:

#### Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2

1. Download the model from HuggingFace:

   ```shell
   git clone https://<your-hugging-face-username>:<your-hugging-face-token>@huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3
   ```

1. Run the server:

   ```shell
   vllm serve <path-to-model>/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 \
      --served_model_name <choose-a-name-for-the-model>  \
      --tokenizer_mode mistral \
      --tensor_parallel_size <number-of-gpus> \
      --load_format mistral \
      --config_format mistral \
      --tokenizer <path-to-model>/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3
   ```

#### Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1

1. Download the model from HuggingFace:

   ```shell
   git clone https://<your-hugging-face-username>:<your-hugging-face-token>@huggingface.co/mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
   ```

1. Rename the token config:

   ```shell
   cd <path-to-model>/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
   cp tokenizer.model tokenizer.model.v3
   ```

1. Run the model:

   ```shell
   vllm serve <path-to-model>/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 \
     --tensor_parallel_size 4 \
     --served_model_name <choose-a-name-for-the-model> \
     --tokenizer_mode mistral \
     --load_format safetensors \
     --tokenizer <path-to-model>/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
   ```

## For cloud-hosted model deployments

1. [AWS Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/).
   A fully managed service that allows developers to build and scale generative AI applications using pre-trained models from leading AI companies. It seamlessly integrates with other AWS services and offers a pay-as-you-go pricing model.

   You must configure the GitLab instance with your appropriate AWS IAM permissions before accessing Bedrock models. You cannot do this in the GitLab Duo Self-Hosted UI. For example, you can authenticate the AI Gateway instance by defining the [`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION_NAME`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) when starting the Docker image. For more information, see the [AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/security-iam.html).

   - [Supported foundation models in Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/models-supported.html)

1. [Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/).
   Provides access to OpenAI's powerful models, enabling developers to integrate advanced AI capabilities into their applications with robust security and scalable infrastructure.
   - [Working with Azure OpenAI models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/working-with-models?tabs=powershell)
   - [Azure OpenAI Service models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models?tabs=python-secure%2Cglobal-standard%2Cstandard-chat-completions)

Commit message:

Adjust docs to add disable-log-requests
Add disable-log-requests to vllm docs

doc/administration/gitlab_duo_self_hosted/supported_llm_serving_platforms.md, after:

---
stage: AI-Powered
group: Custom Models
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Supported LLM Serving Platforms.
title: GitLab Duo Self-Hosted supported platforms
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate with GitLab Duo Enterprise - [Start a GitLab Duo Enterprise trial on a paid Ultimate subscription](https://about.gitlab.com/solutions/gitlab-duo-pro/sales/?type=free-trial)
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12972) in GitLab 17.1 [with a flag](../feature_flags.md) named `ai_custom_model`. Disabled by default.
- [Enabled on GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/15176) in GitLab 17.6.
- Changed to require GitLab Duo add-on in GitLab 17.6 and later.
- Feature flag `ai_custom_model` removed in GitLab 17.8
- Generally available in GitLab 17.9

{{< /history >}}

There are multiple platforms available to host your self-hosted Large Language Models (LLMs). Each platform has unique features and benefits that can cater to different needs. The following documentation summarises the currently supported options:

## For self-hosted model deployments

### vLLM

[vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/index.html) is a high-performance inference server optimized for serving LLMs with memory efficiency. It supports model parallelism and integrates easily with existing workflows.

To install vLLM, see the [vLLM Installation Guide](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/getting_started/installation.html). You should install [version v0.6.4.post1](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/releases/tag/v0.6.4.post1) or later.

#### Endpoint Configuration

When configuring the endpoint URL for any OpenAI API compatible platforms (such as vLLM) in GitLab:

- The URL must be suffixed with `/v1`
- If using the default vLLM configuration, the endpoint URL would be `https://<hostname>:8000/v1`
- If your server is configured behind a proxy or load balancer, you might not need to specify the port, in which case the URL would be `https://<hostname>/v1`

#### Finding the model name

After the model has been deployed, you can obtain the model name for the model identifier field in GitLab by querying the vLLM server's `/v1/models` endpoint:

```shell
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer API_KEY" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  http://your-vllm-server:8000/v1/models
```

The model name is the value of the `data.id` field in the response.

Example response:

```json
{
  "object": "list",
  "data": [
    {
      "id": "Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1",
      "object": "model",
      "created": 1739421415,
      "owned_by": "vllm",
      "root": "mistralai/Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1",
      // Additional fields removed for readability
    }
  ]
}
```

In this example, if the model's `id` is `Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1`, you would set the model identifier in GitLab as `custom_openai/Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1`.

For more information on:

- vLLM supported models, see the [vLLM Supported Models documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/models/supported_models.html).
- Available options when using vLLM to run a model, see the [vLLM documentation on engine arguments](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/stable/usage/engine_args.html).
- The hardware needed for the models, see the [Supported models and Hardware requirements documentation](supported_models_and_hardware_requirements.md).

Examples:

#### Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2

1. Download the model from HuggingFace:

   ```shell
   git clone https://<your-hugging-face-username>:<your-hugging-face-token>@huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3
   ```

1. Run the server:

   ```shell
   vllm serve <path-to-model>/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3 \
      --served_model_name <choose-a-name-for-the-model>  \
      --tokenizer_mode mistral \
      --tensor_parallel_size <number-of-gpus> \
      --load_format mistral \
      --config_format mistral \
      --tokenizer <path-to-model>/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.3
   ```

#### Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1

1. Download the model from HuggingFace:

   ```shell
   git clone https://<your-hugging-face-username>:<your-hugging-face-token>@huggingface.co/mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
   ```

1. Rename the token config:

   ```shell
   cd <path-to-model>/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
   cp tokenizer.model tokenizer.model.v3
   ```

1. Run the model:

   ```shell
   vllm serve <path-to-model>/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 \
     --tensor_parallel_size 4 \
     --served_model_name <choose-a-name-for-the-model> \
     --tokenizer_mode mistral \
     --load_format safetensors \
     --tokenizer <path-to-model>/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1
   ```

#### Disable request logging to reduce latency

When running vLLM in production, you can significantly reduce latency by using the `--disable-log-requests` flag to disable request logging.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Use this flag only when you do not need detailed request logging.

{{< /alert >}}

Disabling request logging minimizes the overhead introduced by verbose logs, especially under high load, and can help improve performance levels.

```shell
vllm serve <path-to-model>/<model-version> \
--served_model_name <choose-a-name-for-the-model>  \
--disable-log-requests
```

This change has been observed to notably improve response times in internal benchmarks.

## For cloud-hosted model deployments

1. [AWS Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/).
   A fully managed service that allows developers to build and scale generative AI applications using pre-trained models from leading AI companies. It seamlessly integrates with other AWS services and offers a pay-as-you-go pricing model.

   You must configure the GitLab instance with your appropriate AWS IAM permissions before accessing Bedrock models. You cannot do this in the GitLab Duo Self-Hosted UI. For example, you can authenticate the AI Gateway instance by defining the [`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION_NAME`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) when starting the Docker image. For more information, see the [AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/security-iam.html).

   - [Supported foundation models in Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/models-supported.html)

1. [Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/).
   Provides access to OpenAI's powerful models, enabling developers to integrate advanced AI capabilities into their applications with robust security and scalable infrastructure.
   - [Working with Azure OpenAI models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/working-with-models?tabs=powershell)
   - [Azure OpenAI Service models](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models?tabs=python-secure%2Cglobal-standard%2Cstandard-chat-completions)
