doc/development/navigation_sidebar.md, before:

---
stage: Growth
group: Engagement
info: Any user with at least the Maintainer role can merge updates to this content. For details, see https://docs.gitlab.com/development/development_processes/#development-guidelines-review.
title: Navigation sidebar
---

Follow these guidelines when contributing additions or changes to the
[redesigned](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9044) navigation
sidebar.

These guidelines reflect the current state of the navigation sidebar. However,
the sidebar is a work in progress, and so is this documentation.

## Enable the new navigation sidebar

To enable the new navigation sidebar, select your avatar, then turn on the **New navigation** toggle.

## Adding items to the sidebar

Before adding an item to the sidebar, ensure you review and follow the
processes outlined in the [handbook page for navigation](https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/navigation/).

## Adding page-specific Vue content

Pages can render arbitrary content into the sidebar using the `SidebarPortal`
component. Content passed to its default slot is rendered below that
page's navigation items in the sidebar.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Only one instance of this component on a given page is supported. This is to
avoid ordering issues and cluttering the sidebar.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

You can use arbitrary content. You should implement nav items by subclassing `::Sidebars::Panel`.
If you must use Vue to render nav items (for example, if you need to use Vue Router) you can make an exception.
However, in the corresponding `panel.rb` file, you must add a comment that explains how the nav items are rendered.
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Do not use the `SidebarPortalTarget` component. It is internal to the sidebar.
{{< /alert >}}

## Snowplow Tracking

All clicks on the nav items should be automatically tracked in Snowplow, but may require additional input.
We use `data-tracking` attributes on all the elements in the nav to send the data up to Snowplow.
You can test that they're working by [setting up snowplow on your GDK](https://gitlab-org.gitlab.io/gitlab-development-kit/howto/snowplow_micro/).

| Field    | Data attribute           | Example            | Notes |
|----------|--------------------------|--------------------|-------|
| Category | `data-tracking-category` | `groups:show`      | The page that the user was on when the item was clicked. |
| Action   | `data-tracking-action`   | `click_link`       | The action taken. In most cases this is `click_link` or `click_menu_item` |
| Label    | `data-tracking-label`    | `group_issue_list` | A descriptor for what was clicked on. This is inferred by the ID of the item in most cases, but falls back to `item_without_id`. This is one to look out for. |
| Property | `data-tracking-property` | `nav_panel_group`  | This describes where in the nav the link was clicked. If it's in the main nav panel, then it needs to describe which panel. |

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/development/navigation_sidebar.md, after:

---
stage: Growth
group: Engagement
info: Any user with at least the Maintainer role can merge updates to this content. For details, see https://docs.gitlab.com/development/development_processes/#development-guidelines-review.
title: Navigation sidebar
---

Follow these guidelines when contributing additions or changes to the
[redesigned](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/9044) navigation
sidebar.

These guidelines reflect the current state of the navigation sidebar. However,
the sidebar is a work in progress, and so is this documentation.

## Enable the new navigation sidebar

To enable the new navigation sidebar, select your avatar, then turn on the **New navigation** toggle. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../user/interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.

## Adding items to the sidebar

Before adding an item to the sidebar, ensure you review and follow the
processes outlined in the [handbook page for navigation](https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/navigation/).

## Adding page-specific Vue content

Pages can render arbitrary content into the sidebar using the `SidebarPortal`
component. Content passed to its default slot is rendered below that
page's navigation items in the sidebar.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Only one instance of this component on a given page is supported. This is to
avoid ordering issues and cluttering the sidebar.

{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

You can use arbitrary content. You should implement nav items by subclassing `::Sidebars::Panel`.
If you must use Vue to render nav items (for example, if you need to use Vue Router) you can make an exception.
However, in the corresponding `panel.rb` file, you must add a comment that explains how the nav items are rendered.
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert type="note" >}}

Do not use the `SidebarPortalTarget` component. It is internal to the sidebar.
{{< /alert >}}

## Snowplow Tracking

All clicks on the nav items should be automatically tracked in Snowplow, but may require additional input.
We use `data-tracking` attributes on all the elements in the nav to send the data up to Snowplow.
You can test that they're working by [setting up snowplow on your GDK](https://gitlab-org.gitlab.io/gitlab-development-kit/howto/snowplow_micro/).

| Field    | Data attribute           | Example            | Notes |
|----------|--------------------------|--------------------|-------|
| Category | `data-tracking-category` | `groups:show`      | The page that the user was on when the item was clicked. |
| Action   | `data-tracking-action`   | `click_link`       | The action taken. In most cases this is `click_link` or `click_menu_item` |
| Label    | `data-tracking-label`    | `group_issue_list` | A descriptor for what was clicked on. This is inferred by the ID of the item in most cases, but falls back to `item_without_id`. This is one to look out for. |
| Property | `data-tracking-property` | `nav_panel_group`  | This describes where in the nav the link was clicked. If it's in the main nav panel, then it needs to describe which panel. |
