doc/user/profile/comment_templates.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Review
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Build templates for text frequently used in comments, and share those templates with your project or group.
title: Comment templates
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Feature flag `saved_replies` [enabled on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/119468) in GitLab 16.0.
- [Feature flag `saved_replies` removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/123363) in GitLab 16.6.
- Saved replies for groups [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12669) in GitLab 16.11 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `group_saved_replies_flag`. Disabled by default.
- Saved replies for groups [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/440817) on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed in GitLab 16.11.
- Saved replies for groups [generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/504028) in GitLab 17.8. Feature flag `group_saved_replies_flag` removed.
- Saved replies for projects [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12669) in GitLab 17.0 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `project_saved_replies_flag`. Enabled by default.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/504028) in GitLab 17.8. Feature flag `project_saved_replies_flag` removed.

{{< /history >}}

With comment templates, create and reuse text for any text area in:

- Merge requests, including diffs.
- Issues, including design management comments.
- Epics.
- Work items.

Comment templates can be small, like approving a merge request and unassigning yourself from it,
or large, like chunks of boilerplate text you use frequently:

![Comment templates dropdown list](img/group_comment_templates_v16_11.png)

## Use comment templates in a text area

To include the text of a comment template in your comment:

1. In the editor toolbar for your comment, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select your desired comment template.

## Create comment templates

You can create comment templates for your own use, or to share with all members of a group.

To create a comment template for your own use:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. From the dropdown list, select **Preferences**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select **Add new**.
1. Provide a **Name** for your comment template.
1. Enter the **Content** of your reply. You can use any formatting you use in
   other GitLab text areas.
1. Select **Save**, and the page reloads with your comment template shown.

### For a group

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

To create a comment template shared with all members of a group:

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage group comment templates**.
1. Select **Add new**.
1. Provide a **Name** for your comment template.
1. Enter the **Content** of your reply. You can use any formatting you use in
   other GitLab text areas.
1. Select **Save**, and the page reloads with your comment template shown.

### For a project

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

To create a comment template shared with all members of a project:

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage project comment templates**.
1. Select **Add new**.
1. Provide a **Name** for your comment template.
1. Enter the **Content** of your reply. You can use any formatting you use in
   other GitLab text areas.
1. Select **Save**, and the page reloads with your comment template shown.

## View comment templates

To see existing comment templates:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. From the dropdown list, select **Preferences**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Scroll to **Comment templates**.

### For a group

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select **Manage group comment templates**.

### For a project

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select **Manage project comment templates**.

## Edit or delete comment templates

To edit or delete an existing comment template:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar.
1. From the dropdown list, select **Preferences**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Scroll to **Comment templates**, and identify the comment template you want to edit.
1. To edit, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. To delete, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}), then select **Delete** again on the dialog.

### For a group

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage group comment templates**.
1. To edit, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. To delete, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}), then select **Delete** again on the dialog.

### For a project

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage project comment templates**.
1. To edit, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. To delete, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}), then select **Delete** again on the dialog.

Commit message:

Update steps for "Create new" button for new UI
Related to enabling the new UI for GitLab.com

doc/user/profile/comment_templates.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Review
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Build templates for text frequently used in comments, and share those templates with your project or group.
title: Comment templates
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

{{< history >}}

- Feature flag `saved_replies` [enabled on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/119468) in GitLab 16.0.
- [Feature flag `saved_replies` removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/123363) in GitLab 16.6.
- Saved replies for groups [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12669) in GitLab 16.11 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `group_saved_replies_flag`. Disabled by default.
- Saved replies for groups [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/440817) on GitLab.com and GitLab Self-Managed in GitLab 16.11.
- Saved replies for groups [generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/504028) in GitLab 17.8. Feature flag `group_saved_replies_flag` removed.
- Saved replies for projects [introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/12669) in GitLab 17.0 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags/_index.md) named `project_saved_replies_flag`. Enabled by default.
- [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/504028) in GitLab 17.8. Feature flag `project_saved_replies_flag` removed.

{{< /history >}}

With comment templates, create and reuse text for any text area in:

- Merge requests, including diffs.
- Issues, including design management comments.
- Epics.
- Work items.

Comment templates can be small, like approving a merge request and unassigning yourself from it,
or large, like chunks of boilerplate text you use frequently:

![Comment templates dropdown list](img/group_comment_templates_v16_11.png)

## Use comment templates in a text area

To include the text of a comment template in your comment:

1. In the editor toolbar for your comment, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select your desired comment template.

## Create comment templates

You can create comment templates for your own use, or to share with all members of a group.

To create a comment template for your own use:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. From the dropdown list, select **Preferences**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select **Add new**.
1. Provide a **Name** for your comment template.
1. Enter the **Content** of your reply. You can use any formatting you use in
   other GitLab text areas.
1. Select **Save**, and the page reloads with your comment template shown.

### For a group

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

To create a comment template shared with all members of a group:

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage group comment templates**.
1. Select **Add new**.
1. Provide a **Name** for your comment template.
1. Enter the **Content** of your reply. You can use any formatting you use in
   other GitLab text areas.
1. Select **Save**, and the page reloads with your comment template shown.

### For a project

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

To create a comment template shared with all members of a project:

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage project comment templates**.
1. Select **Add new**.
1. Provide a **Name** for your comment template.
1. Enter the **Content** of your reply. You can use any formatting you use in
   other GitLab text areas.
1. Select **Save**, and the page reloads with your comment template shown.

## View comment templates

To see existing comment templates:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. From the dropdown list, select **Preferences**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Scroll to **Comment templates**.

### For a group

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select **Manage group comment templates**.

### For a project

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Select **Manage project comment templates**.

## Edit or delete comment templates

To edit or delete an existing comment template:

1. On the left sidebar, select your avatar. If you've [turned on the new navigation](../interface_redesign.md#turn-new-navigation-on-or-off), this button is in the upper-right corner.
1. From the dropdown list, select **Preferences**.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Comment templates** ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}).
1. Scroll to **Comment templates**, and identify the comment template you want to edit.
1. To edit, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. To delete, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}), then select **Delete** again on the dialog.

### For a group

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage group comment templates**.
1. To edit, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. To delete, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}), then select **Delete** again on the dialog.

### For a project

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Premium, Ultimate

{{< /details >}}

1. In the editor toolbar for a comment, select **Comment templates**
   ({{< icon name="comment-lines" >}}), then select **Manage project comment templates**.
1. To edit, select **Edit** ({{< icon name="pencil" >}}).
1. To delete, select **Delete** ({{< icon name="remove" >}}), then select **Delete** again on the dialog.
