doc/development/documentation/experiment_beta.md, before:

---
stage: none
group: unassigned
info: For assistance with this Style Guide page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects
title: Documenting experimental and beta features
---

When you document an [experiment or beta](../../policy/development_stages_support.md) feature:

- Include the status in the [product availability details](styleguide/availability_details.md#status).
- Include [feature flag details](feature_flags.md) if behind a feature flag.
- [Update the feature status](styleguide/availability_details.md#changed-feature-status) when it changes.

## When features become generally available

When the feature changes from experiment or beta to generally available:

- Remove the **Status** from the product availability details.
- Remove any language about the feature not being ready for production.
- Update the [history](styleguide/availability_details.md#history).

## Features that require user enrollment or feedback

To include details about how users should enroll or leave feedback,
add it below the `type=flag` alert.

For example:

```markdown
## Great new feature

{{</* details */>}}

Status: Experiment

{{</* /details */>}}

{{</* history */>}}

- [Introduced](https://issue-link) in GitLab 15.10. This feature is an [experiment](<link_to>/policy/development_stages_support.md).

{{</* /history */>}}

{{</* alert type="flag" */>}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

{{</* /alert */>}}

Use this new feature when you need to do this new thing.

This feature is an [experiment](<link_to>/policy/development_stages_support.md). To join
the list of users testing this feature, do this thing. If you find a bug,
[open an issue](https://link).

```

## GitLab Duo features

Follow these guidelines when you document GitLab Duo features.

### Experiment

When documenting a GitLab Duo experiment:

- On the [top-level GitLab Duo page](../../user/gitlab_duo/_index.md), add a topic to the
  `Experimental features` section.
- Document the feature near other similar features.
- Make sure you add history and status values, including any
  [add-on information](styleguide/availability_details.md#gitlab-duo-pro-or-enterprise-add-on).
- For features that are part of the [Early Access Program](../../policy/early_access_program/_index.md#add-a-feature-to-the-program)
  in the `#developer-relations-early-access-program` Slack channel,
  post a comment that mentions the feature and its status.

### Beta

When a GitLab Duo experiment moves to beta:

- On the [top-level GitLab Duo page](../../user/gitlab_duo/_index.md), move the topic from the
  `Experimental features` to the `Beta features` section.
- Make sure you update the history and status values, including any
  [add-on information](styleguide/availability_details.md#gitlab-duo-pro-or-enterprise-add-on).
- For features that are part of the [Early Access Program](../../policy/early_access_program/_index.md#add-a-feature-to-the-program)
  in the `#developer-relations-early-access-program` Slack channel,
  post a comment that mentions the feature and its status.

### Generally available

When a GitLab Duo feature becomes generally available:

- On the [top-level GitLab Duo page](../../user/gitlab_duo/_index.md), move the topic from the
  `Beta features` or `Experimental features` section to the `Generally available features` section.
- Make sure you update the history and status values, including any
  [add-on information](styleguide/availability_details.md#gitlab-duo-pro-or-enterprise-add-on).
- For features that are part of the [Early Access Program](../../policy/early_access_program/_index.md#add-a-feature-to-the-program)
  in the `#developer-relations-early-access-program` Slack channel,
  post a comment that mentions the feature and its status.

Commit message:

Updating to match the latest page
Because we no longer have one giant table

doc/development/documentation/experiment_beta.md, after:

---
stage: none
group: unassigned
info: For assistance with this Style Guide page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects
title: Documenting experimental and beta features
---

When you document an [experiment or beta](../../policy/development_stages_support.md) feature:

- Include the status in the [product availability details](styleguide/availability_details.md#status).
- Include [feature flag details](feature_flags.md) if behind a feature flag.
- [Update the feature status](styleguide/availability_details.md#changed-feature-status) when it changes.

## When features become generally available

When the feature changes from experiment or beta to generally available:

- Remove the **Status** from the product availability details.
- Remove any language about the feature not being ready for production.
- Update the [history](styleguide/availability_details.md#history).

## Features that require user enrollment or feedback

To include details about how users should enroll or leave feedback,
add it below the `type=flag` alert.

For example:

```markdown
## Great new feature

{{</* details */>}}

Status: Experiment

{{</* /details */>}}

{{</* history */>}}

- [Introduced](https://issue-link) in GitLab 15.10. This feature is an [experiment](<link_to>/policy/development_stages_support.md).

{{</* /history */>}}

{{</* alert type="flag" */>}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

{{</* /alert */>}}

Use this new feature when you need to do this new thing.

This feature is an [experiment](<link_to>/policy/development_stages_support.md). To join
the list of users testing this feature, do this thing. If you find a bug,
[open an issue](https://link).

```

## GitLab Duo features

Follow these guidelines when you document GitLab Duo features.

### Experiment

When documenting a GitLab Duo experiment:

- On the [top-level GitLab Duo page](../../user/gitlab_duo/_index.md#summary-of-gitlab-duo-features):
  - Add a row to the table.
  - Add the feature to an area at the top of the page, near other features that are available
    during a similar stage of the software development lifecycle.
- Document the feature near other similar features.
- Make sure you add history and status values, including any
  [add-on information](styleguide/availability_details.md#add-ons).
- For features that are part of the [Early Access Program](../../policy/early_access_program/_index.md#add-a-feature-to-the-program)
  in the `#developer-relations-early-access-program` Slack channel,
  post a comment that mentions the feature and its status.

### Beta

When a GitLab Duo experiment moves to beta:

- On the [top-level GitLab Duo page](../../user/gitlab_duo/_index.md#summary-of-gitlab-duo-features),
  update the row in the table.
- Make sure you update the history and status values, including any
  [add-on information](styleguide/availability_details.md#add-ons).
- For features that are part of the [Early Access Program](../../policy/early_access_program/_index.md#add-a-feature-to-the-program)
  in the `#developer-relations-early-access-program` Slack channel,
  post a comment that mentions the feature and its status.

### Generally available

When a GitLab Duo feature becomes generally available:

- On the [top-level GitLab Duo page](../../user/gitlab_duo/_index.md#summary-of-gitlab-duo-features),
  update the row in the table.
- Make sure you update the history and status values, including any
  [add-on information](styleguide/availability_details.md#add-ons).
- For features that are part of the [Early Access Program](../../policy/early_access_program/_index.md#add-a-feature-to-the-program)
  in the `#developer-relations-early-access-program` Slack channel,
  post a comment that mentions the feature and its status.
