doc/development/documentation/restful_api_styleguide.md, before:

---
stage: none
group: unassigned
info: For assistance with this Style Guide page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects.
description: Writing styles, markup, formatting, and other standards for the GitLab RESTful APIs.
title: Documenting REST API resources
---

REST API resources are documented in Markdown under
[`/doc/api`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/doc/api). Each
resource has its own Markdown file, which is linked from
[`api_resources.md`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/doc/api/api_resources.md).

When modifying the Markdown, also update the corresponding
[OpenAPI definition](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/doc/api/openapi)
if one exists for the resource. If not, consider creating one. Match the latest
[OpenAPI 3.0.x specification](https://swagger.io/specification/). (For more
information, see the discussion in this
[issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/16023#note_370901810).)

In the Markdown doc for a resource (AKA endpoint):

- Every method must have the REST API request. For example:

  ```plaintext
  GET /api/v4/projects/:id/repository/branches
  ```

- Every method must have a detailed [description of the attributes](#method-description).
- Every method must have a cURL example.
- Every method must have a detailed [description of the response body](#response-body-description).
- Every method must have a response body example (in JSON format).
- If an attribute is available only to higher level subscription tiers, add the appropriate tier to the **Description**. If an attribute is
  for Premium, include that it's also available for Ultimate.
- If an attribute is available only in certain offerings, add the offerings to the **Description**. If the attribute's
  description also has both offering and tier, combine them. For
  example: _GitLab Self-Managed, Premium and Ultimate only._

After a new API documentation page is added, [add an entry in the global navigation](site_architecture/global_nav.md#add-a-navigation-entry). [Examples](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/technical-writing/docs-gitlab-com/-/commits/main/data/en-us/navigation.yaml).

## API topic template

Use the following template to help you get started. Be sure to list any
required attributes first in the table.

````markdown
## API name

{{</* history */>}}

- History note.

{{</* /history */>}}

One or two sentence description of what endpoint does.

### Method title

{{</* history */>}}

- History note.

{{</* /history */>}}

Description of the method.

```plaintext
METHOD /api/v4/endpoint
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute                | Type     | Required | Description           |
|--------------------------|----------|----------|-----------------------|
| `attribute`              | datatype | Yes      | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | No       | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | No       | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | No       | Detailed description. |

If successful, returns [`<status_code>`](rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes) and the following
response attributes:

| Attribute                | Type     | Description           |
|--------------------------|----------|-----------------------|
| `attribute`              | datatype | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | Detailed description. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/endpoint?parameters"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
  }
]
```
````

## History

Add [history](styleguide/availability_details.md#history)
to describe new or updated API calls.

To add history for an individual attribute, include it in the history
for the section. For example:

```markdown
### Edit a widget

{{</* history */>}}

 - `widget_message` [introduced](https://link-to-issue) in GitLab 14.3.

{{</* /history */>}}
```

If the API or attribute is deployed behind a feature flag,
[include the feature flag information](feature_flags.md) in the history.

## Deprecations

To document the deprecation of an API endpoint, follow the steps to
[deprecate a page or topic](styleguide/deprecations_and_removals.md).

To deprecate an attribute:

1. Add a history note.

   ```markdown
   {{</* history */>}}

   - `widget_name` [deprecated](https://link-to-issue) in GitLab 14.7.

   {{</* /history */>}}
   ```

1. Add inline deprecation text to the description.

   ```markdown
   | Attribute     | Type   | Required | Description |
   |---------------|--------|----------|-------------|
   | `widget_name` | string | No       | [Deprecated](https://link-to-issue) in GitLab 14.7. Use `widget_id` instead. The name of the widget. |
   ```

To widely announce a deprecation, [update the REST API deprecations page](../../api/rest/deprecations.md).

## Method description

Use the following table headers to describe the methods. Attributes should
always be in code blocks using backticks (`` ` ``).

Sort the table by required attributes first, then alphabetically.

```markdown
| Attribute                    | Type          | Required | Description                                         |
|------------------------------|---------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `title`                      | string        | Yes      | Title of the issue.                                 |
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | No       | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | No       | Sets the issue to confidential. Default is `false`. |
```

Rendered example:

| Attribute                    | Type          | Required | Description                                         |
|------------------------------|---------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `title`                      | string        | Yes      | Title of the issue.                                 |
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | No       | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Premium and Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | No       | Sets the issue to confidential. Default is `false`. |

For information about writing attribute descriptions, see the [GraphQL API description style guide](../api_graphql_styleguide.md#description-style-guide).

### Conditionally required attributes

If there are attributes where either one or both are required to make an API
request:

1. Add `Conditionally` in the `Required` column.
1. Clearly describe the related attributes in the description.
   You can use the following template:

   ```markdown
   At least one of `attribute1` or `attribute2` must be included in the API call. Both may be used if needed.
   ```

For example:

| Attribute                  | Type           | Required       | Description                                                                                         |
|:---------------------------|:---------------|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `include_saml_users`       | boolean        | Conditionally  | Include users with a SAML identity. At least one of `include_saml_users` or `include_service_accounts` must be `true`. Both may be used if needed. |
| `include_service_accounts` | boolean        | Conditionally  | Include service account users. At least one of `include_saml_users` or `include_service_accounts` must be `true`. Both may be used if needed. |

## Response body description

Start the description with the following sentence, replacing `status code` with the
relevant [HTTP status code](../../api/rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes), for example:

```markdown
If successful, returns [`200 OK`](../../api/rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes) and the
following response attributes:
```

Use the following table headers to describe the response bodies. Attributes should
always be in code blocks using backticks (`` ` ``).

If the attribute is a complex type, like another object, represent sub-attributes
with dots (`.`), like `project.name` or `projects[].name` in case of an array.

Sort the table alphabetically.

```markdown
| Attribute                    | Type          | Description                               |
|------------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------|
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Premium and Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | Whether the issue is confidential or not. |
| `title`                      | string        | Title of the issue.                       |
```

Rendered example:

| Attribute                    | Type          | Description                               |
|------------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------|
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Premium and Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | Whether the issue is confidential or not. |
| `title`                      | string        | Title of the issue.                       |

For information about writing attribute descriptions, see the [GraphQL API description style guide](../api_graphql_styleguide.md#description-style-guide).

## cURL commands

- Use `https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/` as an endpoint.
- Wherever needed use this personal access token: `<your_access_token>`.
- Always put the request first. `GET` is the default so you don't have to
  include it.
- Use long option names (`--header` instead of `-H`) for legibility. (Tested in
  [`scripts/lint-doc.sh`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/scripts/lint-doc.sh).)
- Declare URLs with the `--url` parameter, and wrap the URL in double quotes (`"`).
- Prefer to use examples using the personal access token and don't pass data of
  username and password.
- For legibility, use the <code>&#92;</code> character and indentation to break long single-line
  commands apart into multiple lines.

| Methods                                         | Description                                            |
|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `--header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>"` | Use this method as is, whenever authentication needed. |
| `--request POST`                                | Use this method when creating new objects.             |
| `--request PUT`                                 | Use this method when updating existing objects.        |
| `--request DELETE`                              | Use this method when removing existing objects.        |

## cURL Examples

The following sections include a set of [cURL](https://curl.se/) examples
you can use in the API documentation.

{{< alert type="warning" >}}

Do not use information for real users, URLs, or tokens. For documentation, refer to our
relevant style guide sections on [fake user information](styleguide/_index.md#fake-user-information),
[fake URLs](styleguide/_index.md#fake-urls), and [fake tokens](styleguide/_index.md#fake-tokens).

{{< /alert >}}

### Simple cURL command

Get the details of a group:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/gitlab-org"
```

### cURL example with parameters passed in the URL

Create a new project under the authenticated user's namespace:

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects?name=foo"
```

### Post data using cURL's `--data`

Instead of using `--request POST` and appending the parameters to the URI, you
can use cURL's `--data` option. The example below will create a new project
`foo` under the authenticated user's namespace.

```shell
curl --data "name=foo" \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects"
```

### Post data using JSON content

This example creates a new group. Be aware of the use of single (`'`) and double
(`"`) quotes.

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"path": "my-group", "name": "My group"}' \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups"
```

For readability, you can also set up the `--data` by using the following format:

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups" \
  --header "content-type: application/json" \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --data '{
    "path": "my-group",
    "name": "My group"
}'
```

### Post data using form-data

Instead of using JSON or URL-encoding data, you can use `multipart/form-data` which
properly handles data encoding:

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --form "title=ssh-key" \
  --form "key=ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EA..." \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/users/25/keys"
```

The above example adds an SSH public key titled `ssh-key` to the account of
a user with ID 25. The operation requires administrator access.

### Escape special characters

Spaces or slashes (`/`) can sometimes result in errors, so you should
escape them when possible. In the example below we create a new issue which
contains spaces in its title. Observe how spaces are escaped using the `%20`
ASCII code.

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/42/issues?title=Hello%20GitLab"
```

Use `%2F` for slashes (`/`).

### Pass arrays to API calls

The GitLab API sometimes accepts arrays of strings or integers. For example, to
exclude specific users when requesting a list of users for a project, you would
do something like this:

```shell
curl --request PUT \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>"
  --data "skip_users[]=<user_id>" \
  --data "skip_users[]=<user_id>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/<project_id>/users"
```

Commit message:

Update developer documentation with OpenAPI rake task
The documentation about OpenAPI was outdated. Instead of a
manually maintained OpenAPI V3 file, we now focus on a
autogenerated V2 documentation.

doc/development/documentation/restful_api_styleguide.md, after:

---
stage: none
group: unassigned
info: For assistance with this Style Guide page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments-to-other-projects-and-subjects.
description: Writing styles, markup, formatting, and other standards for the GitLab RESTful APIs.
title: Documenting REST API resources
---

REST API resources are documented in Markdown under
[`/doc/api`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/doc/api). Each
resource has its own Markdown file, which is linked from
[`api_resources.md`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/doc/api/api_resources.md).

When modifying the Markdown or API code, also update the corresponding
[OpenAPI definition](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/tree/master/doc/api/openapi), by running `bin/rake gitlab:openapi:generate`.
To check if the OpenAPI definition needs to be updated, you can run `bin/rake gitlab:openapi:check_docs`.
This is also checked by the `openapi-doc-check` CI/CD job that runs for commits that modify API code or documentation.

In the Markdown doc for a resource (AKA endpoint):

- Every method must have the REST API request. For example:

  ```plaintext
  GET /api/v4/projects/:id/repository/branches
  ```

- Every method must have a detailed [description of the attributes](#method-description).
- Every method must have a cURL example.
- Every method must have a detailed [description of the response body](#response-body-description).
- Every method must have a response body example (in JSON format).
- If an attribute is available only to higher level subscription tiers, add the appropriate tier to the **Description**. If an attribute is
  for Premium, include that it's also available for Ultimate.
- If an attribute is available only in certain offerings, add the offerings to the **Description**. If the attribute's
  description also has both offering and tier, combine them. For
  example: _GitLab Self-Managed, Premium and Ultimate only._

After a new API documentation page is added, [add an entry in the global navigation](site_architecture/global_nav.md#add-a-navigation-entry). [Examples](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/technical-writing/docs-gitlab-com/-/commits/main/data/en-us/navigation.yaml).

## API topic template

Use the following template to help you get started. Be sure to list any
required attributes first in the table.

````markdown
## API name

{{</* history */>}}

- History note.

{{</* /history */>}}

One or two sentence description of what endpoint does.

### Method title

{{</* history */>}}

- History note.

{{</* /history */>}}

Description of the method.

```plaintext
METHOD /api/v4/endpoint
```

Supported attributes:

| Attribute                | Type     | Required | Description           |
|--------------------------|----------|----------|-----------------------|
| `attribute`              | datatype | Yes      | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | No       | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | No       | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | No       | Detailed description. |

If successful, returns [`<status_code>`](rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes) and the following
response attributes:

| Attribute                | Type     | Description           |
|--------------------------|----------|-----------------------|
| `attribute`              | datatype | Detailed description. |
| `attribute`              | datatype | Detailed description. |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/endpoint?parameters"
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
  }
]
```
````

## History

Add [history](styleguide/availability_details.md#history)
to describe new or updated API calls.

To add history for an individual attribute, include it in the history
for the section. For example:

```markdown
### Edit a widget

{{</* history */>}}

 - `widget_message` [introduced](https://link-to-issue) in GitLab 14.3.

{{</* /history */>}}
```

If the API or attribute is deployed behind a feature flag,
[include the feature flag information](feature_flags.md) in the history.

## Deprecations

To document the deprecation of an API endpoint, follow the steps to
[deprecate a page or topic](styleguide/deprecations_and_removals.md).

To deprecate an attribute:

1. Add a history note.

   ```markdown
   {{</* history */>}}

   - `widget_name` [deprecated](https://link-to-issue) in GitLab 14.7.

   {{</* /history */>}}
   ```

1. Add inline deprecation text to the description.

   ```markdown
   | Attribute     | Type   | Required | Description |
   |---------------|--------|----------|-------------|
   | `widget_name` | string | No       | [Deprecated](https://link-to-issue) in GitLab 14.7. Use `widget_id` instead. The name of the widget. |
   ```

To widely announce a deprecation, [update the REST API deprecations page](../../api/rest/deprecations.md).

## Method description

Use the following table headers to describe the methods. Attributes should
always be in code blocks using backticks (`` ` ``).

Sort the table by required attributes first, then alphabetically.

```markdown
| Attribute                    | Type          | Required | Description                                         |
|------------------------------|---------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `title`                      | string        | Yes      | Title of the issue.                                 |
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | No       | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | No       | Sets the issue to confidential. Default is `false`. |
```

Rendered example:

| Attribute                    | Type          | Required | Description                                         |
|------------------------------|---------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `title`                      | string        | Yes      | Title of the issue.                                 |
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | No       | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Premium and Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | No       | Sets the issue to confidential. Default is `false`. |

For information about writing attribute descriptions, see the [GraphQL API description style guide](../api_graphql_styleguide.md#description-style-guide).

### Conditionally required attributes

If there are attributes where either one or both are required to make an API
request:

1. Add `Conditionally` in the `Required` column.
1. Clearly describe the related attributes in the description.
   You can use the following template:

   ```markdown
   At least one of `attribute1` or `attribute2` must be included in the API call. Both may be used if needed.
   ```

For example:

| Attribute                  | Type           | Required       | Description                                                                                         |
|:---------------------------|:---------------|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `include_saml_users`       | boolean        | Conditionally  | Include users with a SAML identity. At least one of `include_saml_users` or `include_service_accounts` must be `true`. Both may be used if needed. |
| `include_service_accounts` | boolean        | Conditionally  | Include service account users. At least one of `include_saml_users` or `include_service_accounts` must be `true`. Both may be used if needed. |

## Response body description

Start the description with the following sentence, replacing `status code` with the
relevant [HTTP status code](../../api/rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes), for example:

```markdown
If successful, returns [`200 OK`](../../api/rest/troubleshooting.md#status-codes) and the
following response attributes:
```

Use the following table headers to describe the response bodies. Attributes should
always be in code blocks using backticks (`` ` ``).

If the attribute is a complex type, like another object, represent sub-attributes
with dots (`.`), like `project.name` or `projects[].name` in case of an array.

Sort the table alphabetically.

```markdown
| Attribute                    | Type          | Description                               |
|------------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------|
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Premium and Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | Whether the issue is confidential or not. |
| `title`                      | string        | Title of the issue.                       |
```

Rendered example:

| Attribute                    | Type          | Description                               |
|------------------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------|
| `assignee_ids`               | integer array | IDs of the users to assign the issue to. Premium and Ultimate only. |
| `confidential`               | boolean       | Whether the issue is confidential or not. |
| `title`                      | string        | Title of the issue.                       |

For information about writing attribute descriptions, see the [GraphQL API description style guide](../api_graphql_styleguide.md#description-style-guide).

## cURL commands

- Use `https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/` as an endpoint.
- Wherever needed use this personal access token: `<your_access_token>`.
- Always put the request first. `GET` is the default so you don't have to
  include it.
- Use long option names (`--header` instead of `-H`) for legibility. (Tested in
  [`scripts/lint-doc.sh`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/scripts/lint-doc.sh).)
- Declare URLs with the `--url` parameter, and wrap the URL in double quotes (`"`).
- Prefer to use examples using the personal access token and don't pass data of
  username and password.
- For legibility, use the <code>&#92;</code> character and indentation to break long single-line
  commands apart into multiple lines.

| Methods                                         | Description                                            |
|-------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `--header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>"` | Use this method as is, whenever authentication needed. |
| `--request POST`                                | Use this method when creating new objects.             |
| `--request PUT`                                 | Use this method when updating existing objects.        |
| `--request DELETE`                              | Use this method when removing existing objects.        |

## cURL Examples

The following sections include a set of [cURL](https://curl.se/) examples
you can use in the API documentation.

{{< alert type="warning" >}}

Do not use information for real users, URLs, or tokens. For documentation, refer to our
relevant style guide sections on [fake user information](styleguide/_index.md#fake-user-information),
[fake URLs](styleguide/_index.md#fake-urls), and [fake tokens](styleguide/_index.md#fake-tokens).

{{< /alert >}}

### Simple cURL command

Get the details of a group:

```shell
curl --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/gitlab-org"
```

### cURL example with parameters passed in the URL

Create a new project under the authenticated user's namespace:

```shell
curl --request POST --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects?name=foo"
```

### Post data using cURL's `--data`

Instead of using `--request POST` and appending the parameters to the URI, you
can use cURL's `--data` option. The example below will create a new project
`foo` under the authenticated user's namespace.

```shell
curl --data "name=foo" \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects"
```

### Post data using JSON content

This example creates a new group. Be aware of the use of single (`'`) and double
(`"`) quotes.

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"path": "my-group", "name": "My group"}' \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups"
```

For readability, you can also set up the `--data` by using the following format:

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups" \
  --header "content-type: application/json" \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --data '{
    "path": "my-group",
    "name": "My group"
}'
```

### Post data using form-data

Instead of using JSON or URL-encoding data, you can use `multipart/form-data` which
properly handles data encoding:

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --form "title=ssh-key" \
  --form "key=ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EA..." \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/users/25/keys"
```

The above example adds an SSH public key titled `ssh-key` to the account of
a user with ID 25. The operation requires administrator access.

### Escape special characters

Spaces or slashes (`/`) can sometimes result in errors, so you should
escape them when possible. In the example below we create a new issue which
contains spaces in its title. Observe how spaces are escaped using the `%20`
ASCII code.

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/42/issues?title=Hello%20GitLab"
```

Use `%2F` for slashes (`/`).

### Pass arrays to API calls

The GitLab API sometimes accepts arrays of strings or integers. For example, to
exclude specific users when requesting a list of users for a project, you would
do something like this:

```shell
curl --request PUT \
  --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: <your_access_token>"
  --data "skip_users[]=<user_id>" \
  --data "skip_users[]=<user_id>" \
  --url "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/<project_id>/users"
```
