doc/install/docker/configuration.md, before:

---
stage: GitLab Delivery
group: Operate
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Configure GitLab running in a Docker container
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

This container uses the official Linux package, so you can use
the unique configuration file `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` to configure the instance.

## Edit the configuration file

To access the GitLab configuration file, you can start a shell session in the
context of a running container.

1. Start the session:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab /bin/bash
   ```

   Alternatively, you can open `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` in an editor directly:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab editor /etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb
   ```

1. In your preferred text editor, open `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and update the following fields:

   1. Set the `external_url` field to
      a valid URL for your GitLab instance.

   1. To receive emails from GitLab, configure the
      [SMTP settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/smtp.html). The GitLab Docker image
      doesn't have an SMTP server pre-installed.

   1. If desired [enable HTTPS](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/ssl/).

1. Save the file and restart the container to reconfigure GitLab:

   ```shell
   sudo docker restart gitlab
   ```

GitLab reconfigures itself each time the container starts.
For more configuration options in GitLab, see the
[configuration documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/configuration.html).

## Pre-configure Docker container

You can pre-configure the GitLab Docker image by adding the environment variable
`GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` to the Docker run command. This variable can contain any
`gitlab.rb` setting and is evaluated before the loading of the container's
`gitlab.rb` file. This behavior allows you to configure the external GitLab URL,
and make database configuration or any other option from the
[Linux package template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/files/gitlab-config-template/gitlab.rb.template).
The settings contained in `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` aren't written to the
`gitlab.rb` configuration file, and are evaluated on load. To provide multiple
settings, separate them with a colon (`;`).

The following example sets the external URL, enables LFS, and starts
the container with a [minimal shm size required for Prometheus](troubleshooting.md#devshm-mount-not-having-enough-space-in-docker-container):

```shell
sudo docker run --detach \
  --hostname gitlab.example.com \
  --env GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG="external_url 'http://gitlab.example.com'; gitlab_rails['lfs_enabled'] = true;" \
  --publish 443:443 --publish 80:80 --publish 22:22 \
  --name gitlab \
  --restart always \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/config:/etc/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
  --shm-size 256m \
  gitlab/gitlab-ee:<version>-ee.0
```

Every time you execute a `docker run` command, you need to provide
the `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` option. The content of `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` is
_not_ preserved between subsequent runs.

### Run GitLab on a public IP address

You can make Docker to use your IP address and forward all traffic to the
GitLab container by modifying the `--publish` flag.

To expose GitLab on IP `198.51.100.1`:

```shell
sudo docker run --detach \
  --hostname gitlab.example.com \
  --env GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG="external_url 'http://gitlab.example.com'" \
  --publish 198.51.100.1:443:443 \
  --publish 198.51.100.1:80:80 \
  --publish 198.51.100.1:22:22 \
  --name gitlab \
  --restart always \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/config:/etc/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
  --shm-size 256m \
  gitlab/gitlab-ee:<version>-ee.0
```

You can then access your GitLab instance at `http://198.51.100.1/` and `https://198.51.100.1/`.

## Expose GitLab on different ports

GitLab occupies [specific ports](../../administration/package_information/defaults.md)
inside the container.

If you want to use different host ports from the default ports `80` (HTTP), `443` (HTTPS), or `22` (SSH),
you need to add a separate `--publish` directive to the `docker run` command.

For example, to expose the web interface on the host's port `8929`, and the SSH service on
port `2424`:

1. Use the following `docker run` command:

   ```shell
   sudo docker run --detach \
     --hostname gitlab.example.com \
     --env GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG="external_url 'http://gitlab.example.com:8929'; gitlab_rails['gitlab_shell_ssh_port'] = 2424" \
     --publish 8929:8929 --publish 2424:22 \
     --name gitlab \
     --restart always \
     --volume $GITLAB_HOME/config:/etc/gitlab \
     --volume $GITLAB_HOME/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
     --volume $GITLAB_HOME/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
     --shm-size 256m \
     gitlab/gitlab-ee:<version>-ee.0
   ```

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   The format to publish ports is `hostPort:containerPort`. Read more in the
   Docker documentation about
   [exposing incoming ports](https://docs.docker.com/network/#published-ports).

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Enter the running container:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab /bin/bash
   ```

1. Open `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` with your editor and set `external_url`:

   ```ruby
   # For HTTP
   external_url "http://gitlab.example.com:8929"

   or

   # For HTTPS (notice the https)
   external_url "https://gitlab.example.com:8929"
   ```

   The port specified in this URL must match the port published to the host by Docker.
   Additionally, if the NGINX listen port is not explicitly set in
   `nginx['listen_port']`, the `external_url` is used instead.
   For more information, see the [NGINX documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/nginx.html).

1. Set the SSH port:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['gitlab_shell_ssh_port'] = 2424
   ```

1. Finally, reconfigure GitLab:

   ```shell
   gitlab-ctl reconfigure
   ```

Following the previous example, your web browser can reach your GitLab instance
at `<hostIP>:8929` and push over SSH on port `2424`.

You can see a `docker-compose.yml` example that uses different ports in the
[Docker compose](installation.md#install-gitlab-by-using-docker-compose) section.

## Configure multiple database connections

Starting in [GitLab 16.0](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/merge_requests/6850),
GitLab defaults to using two database connections that point to the same PostgreSQL database.

If, for any reason, you wish to switch back to single database connection:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` inside the container:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab editor /etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb
   ```

1. Add the following line:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['databases']['ci']['enable'] = false
   ```

1. Restart the container:

   ```shell
   sudo docker restart gitlab
   ```

## Next steps

After you configure your installation, consider taking the
[recommended next steps](../next_steps.md), including authentication options
and sign-up restrictions.

Commit message:

Add description field for docker/configuration.md

doc/install/docker/configuration.md, after:

---
stage: GitLab Delivery
group: Operate
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: How to configure GitLab when running in a Docker container.
title: Configure GitLab running in a Docker container
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab Self-Managed

{{< /details >}}

This container uses the official Linux package, so you can use
the unique configuration file `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` to configure the instance.

## Edit the configuration file

To access the GitLab configuration file, you can start a shell session in the
context of a running container.

1. Start the session:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab /bin/bash
   ```

   Alternatively, you can open `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` in an editor directly:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab editor /etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb
   ```

1. In your preferred text editor, open `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` and update the following fields:

   1. Set the `external_url` field to
      a valid URL for your GitLab instance.

   1. To receive emails from GitLab, configure the
      [SMTP settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/smtp.html). The GitLab Docker image
      doesn't have an SMTP server pre-installed.

   1. If desired [enable HTTPS](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/ssl/).

1. Save the file and restart the container to reconfigure GitLab:

   ```shell
   sudo docker restart gitlab
   ```

GitLab reconfigures itself each time the container starts.
For more configuration options in GitLab, see the
[configuration documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/configuration.html).

## Pre-configure Docker container

You can pre-configure the GitLab Docker image by adding the environment variable
`GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` to the Docker run command. This variable can contain any
`gitlab.rb` setting and is evaluated before the loading of the container's
`gitlab.rb` file. This behavior allows you to configure the external GitLab URL,
and make database configuration or any other option from the
[Linux package template](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/blob/master/files/gitlab-config-template/gitlab.rb.template).
The settings contained in `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` aren't written to the
`gitlab.rb` configuration file, and are evaluated on load. To provide multiple
settings, separate them with a colon (`;`).

The following example sets the external URL, enables LFS, and starts
the container with a [minimal shm size required for Prometheus](troubleshooting.md#devshm-mount-not-having-enough-space-in-docker-container):

```shell
sudo docker run --detach \
  --hostname gitlab.example.com \
  --env GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG="external_url 'http://gitlab.example.com'; gitlab_rails['lfs_enabled'] = true;" \
  --publish 443:443 --publish 80:80 --publish 22:22 \
  --name gitlab \
  --restart always \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/config:/etc/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
  --shm-size 256m \
  gitlab/gitlab-ee:<version>-ee.0
```

Every time you execute a `docker run` command, you need to provide
the `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` option. The content of `GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG` is
_not_ preserved between subsequent runs.

### Run GitLab on a public IP address

You can make Docker to use your IP address and forward all traffic to the
GitLab container by modifying the `--publish` flag.

To expose GitLab on IP `198.51.100.1`:

```shell
sudo docker run --detach \
  --hostname gitlab.example.com \
  --env GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG="external_url 'http://gitlab.example.com'" \
  --publish 198.51.100.1:443:443 \
  --publish 198.51.100.1:80:80 \
  --publish 198.51.100.1:22:22 \
  --name gitlab \
  --restart always \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/config:/etc/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
  --volume $GITLAB_HOME/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
  --shm-size 256m \
  gitlab/gitlab-ee:<version>-ee.0
```

You can then access your GitLab instance at `http://198.51.100.1/` and `https://198.51.100.1/`.

## Expose GitLab on different ports

GitLab occupies [specific ports](../../administration/package_information/defaults.md)
inside the container.

If you want to use different host ports from the default ports `80` (HTTP), `443` (HTTPS), or `22` (SSH),
you need to add a separate `--publish` directive to the `docker run` command.

For example, to expose the web interface on the host's port `8929`, and the SSH service on
port `2424`:

1. Use the following `docker run` command:

   ```shell
   sudo docker run --detach \
     --hostname gitlab.example.com \
     --env GITLAB_OMNIBUS_CONFIG="external_url 'http://gitlab.example.com:8929'; gitlab_rails['gitlab_shell_ssh_port'] = 2424" \
     --publish 8929:8929 --publish 2424:22 \
     --name gitlab \
     --restart always \
     --volume $GITLAB_HOME/config:/etc/gitlab \
     --volume $GITLAB_HOME/logs:/var/log/gitlab \
     --volume $GITLAB_HOME/data:/var/opt/gitlab \
     --shm-size 256m \
     gitlab/gitlab-ee:<version>-ee.0
   ```

   {{< alert type="note" >}}

   The format to publish ports is `hostPort:containerPort`. Read more in the
   Docker documentation about
   [exposing incoming ports](https://docs.docker.com/network/#published-ports).

   {{< /alert >}}

1. Enter the running container:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab /bin/bash
   ```

1. Open `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` with your editor and set `external_url`:

   ```ruby
   # For HTTP
   external_url "http://gitlab.example.com:8929"

   or

   # For HTTPS (notice the https)
   external_url "https://gitlab.example.com:8929"
   ```

   The port specified in this URL must match the port published to the host by Docker.
   Additionally, if the NGINX listen port is not explicitly set in
   `nginx['listen_port']`, the `external_url` is used instead.
   For more information, see the [NGINX documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/omnibus/settings/nginx.html).

1. Set the SSH port:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['gitlab_shell_ssh_port'] = 2424
   ```

1. Finally, reconfigure GitLab:

   ```shell
   gitlab-ctl reconfigure
   ```

Following the previous example, your web browser can reach your GitLab instance
at `<hostIP>:8929` and push over SSH on port `2424`.

You can see a `docker-compose.yml` example that uses different ports in the
[Docker compose](installation.md#install-gitlab-by-using-docker-compose) section.

## Configure multiple database connections

Starting in [GitLab 16.0](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/omnibus-gitlab/-/merge_requests/6850),
GitLab defaults to using two database connections that point to the same PostgreSQL database.

If, for any reason, you wish to switch back to single database connection:

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` inside the container:

   ```shell
   sudo docker exec -it gitlab editor /etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb
   ```

1. Add the following line:

   ```ruby
   gitlab_rails['databases']['ci']['enable'] = false
   ```

1. Restart the container:

   ```shell
   sudo docker restart gitlab
   ```

## Next steps

After you configure your installation, consider taking the
[recommended next steps](../next_steps.md), including authentication options
and sign-up restrictions.
