doc/user/project/repository/files/_index.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Remote Development
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Search for files in your GitLab repository directly from the GitLab user interface.
title: File management
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

The GitLab UI extends the history and tracking capabilities of Git with user-friendly
features in your browser. You can:

- Search for files.
- Change file handling.
- Explore the history of an entire file, or a single line.

## Understand how file types render in the UI

When you add files of these types to your project, GitLab renders their output
to improve readability:

- [GeoJSON](geojson.md) files display as maps.
- [Jupyter Notebook](jupyter_notebooks/_index.md) files display as rendered HTML.
- Files in many markup languages are rendered for display.

### Supported markup languages

If your file has one of the these file extensions, GitLab renders the contents of the file's
[markup language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_markup_language) in the UI.

| Markup language                                              | Extensions |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------|
| Plain text                                                   | `txt`      |
| [Markdown](../../../markdown.md)                             | `mdown`, `mkd`, `mkdn`, `md`, `markdown` |
| [reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html) | `rst`      |
| [AsciiDoc](../../../asciidoc.md)                             | `adoc`, `ad`, `asciidoc` |
| [Textile](https://textile-lang.com/)                         | `textile`  |
| [Rdoc](https://rdoc.sourceforge.net/doc/index.html)          | `rdoc`     |
| [Org mode](https://orgmode.org/)                             | `org`      |
| [creole](http://www.wikicreole.org/)                         | `creole`   |
| [MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki)        | `wiki`, `mediawiki` |

### README and index files

When a `README` or `index` file is present in a repository, GitLab renders its contents.
These files can either be plain text or have the extension of a
supported markup language.

- When both a `README` and an `index` file are present, the `README` takes precedence.
- When multiple files with the same name have different extensions, the files are
  ordered alphabetically. GitLab orders files without an extension last, like this:

  1. `README.adoc`
  1. `README.md`
  1. `README.rst`
  1. `README`.

### Render OpenAPI files

GitLab renders OpenAPI specification files if the filename includes `openapi` or `swagger`,
and the extension is `yaml`, `yml`, or `json`. These examples are all correct:

- `openapi.yml`, `openapi.yaml`, `openapi.json`
- `swagger.yml`, `swagger.yaml`, `swagger.json`
- `OpenAPI.YML`, `openapi.Yaml`, `openapi.JSON`
- `openapi_gitlab.yml`, `openapi.gitlab.yml`
- `gitlab_swagger.yml`
- `gitlab.openapi.yml`

To render an OpenAPI file:

1. [Search for](#search-for-a-file) the OpenAPI file in your repository.
1. Select **Display rendered file**.
1. To display the `operationId` in the operations list, add `displayOperationId=true` to the query string.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

When `displayOperationId` is present in the query string and has _any_ value, it
evaluates to `true`. This behavior matches the default behavior of Swagger.

{{< /alert >}}

## View Git records for a file

Historical information about files in your repository is available in the GitLab UI:

- [Git file history](git_history.md): shows the commit history of an entire file.
- [Git blame](git_blame.md): shows each line of a text-based file, and the most
  recent commit that changed the line.

## Search for a file

{{< history >}}

- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/148025) to a dialog in GitLab 16.11.

{{< /history >}}

Use the file finder to search directly from the GitLab UI for a file in your repository.
The file finder uses fuzzy search and highlights results as you type.

To search for a file, press <kbd>t</kbd> anywhere in your project, or:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Code > Repository**.
1. In the upper right, select **Find file**.
1. On the dialog, start entering the filename:

   ![Find file button](img/file_finder_v17_2.png)

1. Optional. To narrow the search options, press <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> or
   select **Commands** on the lower right corner of the dialog:
   - For **Pages or actions**, enter <kbd>></kbd>.
   - For **Users**, enter <kbd>@</kbd>.
   - For **Projects**, enter <kbd>:</kbd>.
   - For **Files**, enter <kbd>~</kbd>.
1. From the dropdown list, select the file to view it in your repository.

To go back to the **Files** page, press <kbd>Esc</kbd>.

This feature uses the [`fuzzaldrin-plus`](https://github.com/jeancroy/fuzz-aldrin-plus) library.

## Change how Git handles a file

To change the default handling of a file or file type, create a
[`.gitattributes` file](git_attributes.md). Use `.gitattributes` files to:

- Configure file display in diffs, such as [syntax highlighting](highlighting.md)
  or [collapsing generated files](../../merge_requests/changes.md#collapse-generated-files).
- Control file storage and protection, such as [making files read-only](../../file_lock.md),
  or storing large files [with Git LFS](../../../../topics/git/lfs/_index.md).

## Related topics

- [Repository files API](../../../../api/repository_files.md)
- [File management with Git](../../../../topics/git/file_management.md)

## Troubleshooting

### Repository Languages: excessive CPU use

To determine which languages are in a repository's files, GitLab uses a Ruby gem.
When the gem parses a file to determine its file type, [the process can use excessive CPU](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/-/issues/1565).
The gem contains a [heuristics configuration file](https://github.com/github/linguist/blob/master/lib/linguist/heuristics.yml)
that defines which file extensions to parse. These file types can take excessive CPU:

- Files with the `.txt` extension.
- XML files with an extension not defined by the gem.

To fix this problem, edit your `.gitattributes` file and assign a language to
specific file extensions. You can also use this approach to fix misidentified file types:

1. Identify the language to specify. The gem contains a
   [configuration file for known data types](https://github.com/github/linguist/blob/master/lib/linguist/languages.yml).

1. To add an entry for text files, for example:

   ```yaml
   Text:
     type: prose
     wrap: true
     aliases:
     - fundamental
     - plain text
     extensions:
     - ".txt"
   ```

1. Add or edit `.gitattributes` in the root of your repository:

   ```plaintext
   *.txt linguist-language=Text
   ```

  `*.txt` files have an entry in the heuristics file. This example prevents parsing of these files.

Commit message:

Add documentation for viewing open MRs for a file
Adds documentation for viewing open MRs related to a file

doc/user/project/repository/files/_index.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Remote Development
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: Search for files in your GitLab repository directly from the GitLab user interface.
title: File management
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Free, Premium, Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com, GitLab Self-Managed, GitLab Dedicated

{{< /details >}}

The GitLab UI extends the history and tracking capabilities of Git with user-friendly
features in your browser. You can:

- Search for files.
- Change file handling.
- Explore the history of an entire file, or a single line.

## Understand how file types render in the UI

When you add files of these types to your project, GitLab renders their output
to improve readability:

- [GeoJSON](geojson.md) files display as maps.
- [Jupyter Notebook](jupyter_notebooks/_index.md) files display as rendered HTML.
- Files in many markup languages are rendered for display.

### Supported markup languages

If your file has one of the these file extensions, GitLab renders the contents of the file's
[markup language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_markup_language) in the UI.

| Markup language                                              | Extensions |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|------------|
| Plain text                                                   | `txt`      |
| [Markdown](../../../markdown.md)                             | `mdown`, `mkd`, `mkdn`, `md`, `markdown` |
| [reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html) | `rst`      |
| [AsciiDoc](../../../asciidoc.md)                             | `adoc`, `ad`, `asciidoc` |
| [Textile](https://textile-lang.com/)                         | `textile`  |
| [Rdoc](https://rdoc.sourceforge.net/doc/index.html)          | `rdoc`     |
| [Org mode](https://orgmode.org/)                             | `org`      |
| [creole](http://www.wikicreole.org/)                         | `creole`   |
| [MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki)        | `wiki`, `mediawiki` |

### README and index files

When a `README` or `index` file is present in a repository, GitLab renders its contents.
These files can either be plain text or have the extension of a
supported markup language.

- When both a `README` and an `index` file are present, the `README` takes precedence.
- When multiple files with the same name have different extensions, the files are
  ordered alphabetically. GitLab orders files without an extension last, like this:

  1. `README.adoc`
  1. `README.md`
  1. `README.rst`
  1. `README`.

### Render OpenAPI files

GitLab renders OpenAPI specification files if the filename includes `openapi` or `swagger`,
and the extension is `yaml`, `yml`, or `json`. These examples are all correct:

- `openapi.yml`, `openapi.yaml`, `openapi.json`
- `swagger.yml`, `swagger.yaml`, `swagger.json`
- `OpenAPI.YML`, `openapi.Yaml`, `openapi.JSON`
- `openapi_gitlab.yml`, `openapi.gitlab.yml`
- `gitlab_swagger.yml`
- `gitlab.openapi.yml`

To render an OpenAPI file:

1. [Search for](#search-for-a-file) the OpenAPI file in your repository.
1. Select **Display rendered file**.
1. To display the `operationId` in the operations list, add `displayOperationId=true` to the query string.

{{< alert type="note" >}}

When `displayOperationId` is present in the query string and has _any_ value, it
evaluates to `true`. This behavior matches the default behavior of Swagger.

{{< /alert >}}

## View Git records for a file

Historical information about files in your repository is available in the GitLab UI:

- [Git file history](git_history.md): shows the commit history of an entire file.
- [Git blame](git_blame.md): shows each line of a text-based file, and the most
  recent commit that changed the line.

## View open merge requests for a file

{{< history >}}

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/448868) in GitLab 17.10 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `filter_blob_path`. Disabled by default.

{{< /history >}}

{{< alert type="flag" >}}

The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag. For more information, see the history.

{{< /alert >}}

When viewing a file in your repository, GitLab shows a badge with the number of open merge requests that target the current branch and modify the file. This helps you identify files that have pending changes.

To view the open merge requests for a file:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Go to the file you want to view.
1. At the top right of the screen, next to the filename, look for the green badge with the number
   of {{< icon name="merge-request-open" >}} **Open** merge requests.
1. Select the badge to see a list of open merge requests created in the past 30 days.
1. Select any merge request in the list to go to that merge request.

## Search for a file

{{< history >}}

- [Changed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/148025) to a dialog in GitLab 16.11.

{{< /history >}}

Use the file finder to search directly from the GitLab UI for a file in your repository.
The file finder uses fuzzy search and highlights results as you type.

To search for a file, press <kbd>t</kbd> anywhere in your project, or:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Code > Repository**.
1. In the upper right, select **Find file**.
1. On the dialog, start entering the filename:

   ![Find file button](img/file_finder_v17_2.png)

1. Optional. To narrow the search options, press <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> or
   select **Commands** on the lower right corner of the dialog:
   - For **Pages or actions**, enter <kbd>></kbd>.
   - For **Users**, enter <kbd>@</kbd>.
   - For **Projects**, enter <kbd>:</kbd>.
   - For **Files**, enter <kbd>~</kbd>.
1. From the dropdown list, select the file to view it in your repository.

To go back to the **Files** page, press <kbd>Esc</kbd>.

This feature uses the [`fuzzaldrin-plus`](https://github.com/jeancroy/fuzz-aldrin-plus) library.

## Change how Git handles a file

To change the default handling of a file or file type, create a
[`.gitattributes` file](git_attributes.md). Use `.gitattributes` files to:

- Configure file display in diffs, such as [syntax highlighting](highlighting.md)
  or [collapsing generated files](../../merge_requests/changes.md#collapse-generated-files).
- Control file storage and protection, such as [making files read-only](../../file_lock.md),
  or storing large files [with Git LFS](../../../../topics/git/lfs/_index.md).

## Related topics

- [Repository files API](../../../../api/repository_files.md)
- [File management with Git](../../../../topics/git/file_management.md)

## Troubleshooting

### Repository Languages: excessive CPU use

To determine which languages are in a repository's files, GitLab uses a Ruby gem.
When the gem parses a file to determine its file type, [the process can use excessive CPU](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitaly/-/issues/1565).
The gem contains a [heuristics configuration file](https://github.com/github/linguist/blob/master/lib/linguist/heuristics.yml)
that defines which file extensions to parse. These file types can take excessive CPU:

- Files with the `.txt` extension.
- XML files with an extension not defined by the gem.

To fix this problem, edit your `.gitattributes` file and assign a language to
specific file extensions. You can also use this approach to fix misidentified file types:

1. Identify the language to specify. The gem contains a
   [configuration file for known data types](https://github.com/github/linguist/blob/master/lib/linguist/languages.yml).

1. To add an entry for text files, for example:

   ```yaml
   Text:
     type: prose
     wrap: true
     aliases:
     - fundamental
     - plain text
     extensions:
     - ".txt"
   ```

1. Add or edit `.gitattributes` in the root of your repository:

   ```plaintext
   *.txt linguist-language=Text
   ```

  `*.txt` files have an entry in the heuristics file. This example prevents parsing of these files.
