doc/user/duo_workflow/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
stage: AI-powered
group: Duo Workflow
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Troubleshoot GitLab Duo Workflow
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com
- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

{{< alert type="warning" >}}

This feature is considered [experimental](../../policy/development_stages_support.md) and is not intended for customer usage outside of initial design partners. We expect major changes to this feature.

{{< /alert >}}

## General guidance

If you encounter issues:

1. Ensure that you have the latest version of the GitLab Workflow extension.
1. Ensure that the project you want to use it with meets the [prerequisites](_index.md#prerequisites).
1. Ensure that the folder you opened in VS Code has a Git repository for your GitLab project.
1. Ensure that you've checked out the branch for the code you'd like to change.
1. Check local debugging logs:
   1. For more output in the logs, open the settings:
      1. On macOS: <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>
      1. On Windows and Linux: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>
      1. Search for the setting **GitLab: Debug** and enable it.
   1. Check the language server logs:
      1. To open the logs in VS Code, select **View** > **Output**. In the output panel at the bottom, in the top-right corner, select **GitLab Workflow** or **GitLab Language Server** from the list.
      1. Review for errors, warnings, connection issues, or authentication problems.

## Docker guidance

If you encounter issues with your Docker setup for Duo Workflow, try the following steps.

1. [Install Docker and set the socket file path](docker_set_up.md#install-docker-and-set-the-socket-file-path).
1. Restart your container manager. For example, if you use Colima, `colima restart`.
1. Pull the base Docker image:

   ```shell
   docker pull registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-org/duo-workflow/default-docker-image/workflow-generic-image:v0.0.4
   ```

1. For permission issues, ensure your operating system user has the necessary Docker permissions.
1. Verify Docker's internet connectivity by executing the command `docker image pull redhat/ubi8`.
   If this does not work, the DNS configuration of Colima might be at fault.
   Edit the DNS setting in `~/.colima/default/colima.yaml` to `dns: [1.1.1.1]` and then restart Colima with `colima restart`.
1. Check the executor logs:
   1. Use `docker ps -a | grep duo-workflow` to get the list of Workflow containers and their ids.
   1. Use `docker logs <container_id>` to view the logs for the specific container.

Commit message:

Add troubleshooting advice for duo workflow network issues

doc/user/duo_workflow/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
stage: AI-powered
group: Duo Workflow
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
title: Troubleshoot GitLab Duo Workflow
---

{{< details >}}

- Tier: Ultimate
- Offering: GitLab.com
- Status: Experiment

{{< /details >}}

{{< alert type="warning" >}}

This feature is considered [experimental](../../policy/development_stages_support.md) and is not intended for customer usage outside of initial design partners. We expect major changes to this feature.

{{< /alert >}}

## General guidance

If you encounter issues:

1. Ensure that you have the latest version of the GitLab Workflow extension.
1. Ensure that the project you want to use it with meets the [prerequisites](_index.md#prerequisites).
1. Ensure that the folder you opened in VS Code has a Git repository for your GitLab project.
1. Ensure that you've checked out the branch for the code you'd like to change.
1. Ensure that you can connect to the Workflow service:
   1. In Google Chrome or Firefox, open Developer Tools and the **Network** tab.
   1. Right-click the column headers to trigger protocol column visibility.
   1. In the address bar, enter `https://duo-workflow.runway.gitlab.net/DuoWorkflow/ExecuteWorkflow`.
   1. Ensure the request was successful and the **Protocol** column includes `h2` in Chrome or `HTTP/2` in Firefox.
   1. If the request fails, your network might be blocking the connection, for example with a firewall. The network must let HTTP/2 traffic through to the service.
1. Check local debugging logs:
   1. For more output in the logs, open the settings:
      1. On macOS: <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>
      1. On Windows and Linux: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>
      1. Search for the setting **GitLab: Debug** and enable it.
   1. Check the language server logs:
      1. To open the logs in VS Code, select **View** > **Output**. In the output panel at the bottom, in the top-right corner, select **GitLab Workflow** or **GitLab Language Server** from the list.
      1. Review for errors, warnings, connection issues, or authentication problems.

## Docker guidance

If you encounter issues with your Docker setup for Duo Workflow, try the following steps.

1. [Install Docker and set the socket file path](docker_set_up.md#install-docker-and-set-the-socket-file-path).
1. Restart your container manager. For example, if you use Colima, `colima restart`.
1. Pull the base Docker image:

   ```shell
   docker pull registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-org/duo-workflow/default-docker-image/workflow-generic-image:v0.0.4
   ```

1. For permission issues, ensure your operating system user has the necessary Docker permissions.
1. Verify Docker's internet connectivity by executing the command `docker image pull redhat/ubi8`.
   If this does not work, the DNS configuration of Colima might be at fault.
   Edit the DNS setting in `~/.colima/default/colima.yaml` to `dns: [1.1.1.1]` and then restart Colima with `colima restart`.
1. Check the executor logs:
   1. Use `docker ps -a | grep duo-workflow` to get the list of Workflow containers and their ids.
   1. Use `docker logs <container_id>` to view the logs for the specific container.
